# 20.4 Education

## Computer Science

## Language and Translation

## Algebra

Simple calculator **bc**

Installation command: `# pkg install gnubc`

### Suffix representation

*Note: This section is referenced from Wikipedia*

From the time we were introduced to math in kindergarten, the expression we use for calculations is the midfix representation. For example, to compute the sum of 3 and 4, write `3 + 4`, where the operator (in this case the plus sign) is in the middle of the operands (i.e. 3 and 4).

In the suffix representation, the operator is placed after the operand. The above equation would be written as `3 4 +` if the suffix representation were used instead. If there is more than one operator, the operator is placed after the second operand, so `3 - 4 + 5` in the regular midfix representation is written `3 4 - 5 + ` in the suffix representation.

At first glance, the suffix representation seems very anti-human, but this approach is easier for computers to understand and can take advantage of the stack structure to reduce computer memory access.

One example of a midfix expression `5 + ((1 + 2) * 4) - 3` is changed to a suffix representation of `5 1 2 + 4 * + 3 -`.
The following table gives the process of finding the value from left to right, and the stack column gives the intermediate values for tracking the algorithm.


| Input | Operation | Stack | Comments |
|:---:|:----:|:-------:|:------------------:|
| 5 | into the stack | 5 | | |
| 1 | Into the stack | 5, 1 | |
| 2 | Into the stack | 5, 1, 2 | |
| + | add | 5, 3 | 1, 2 out of the stack and let the result 3 go on the stack |
| 4 | stack | 5, 3, 4 | |
| * | Multiply | 5, 12 | 3, 4 out, let result 12 on the stack |
| + | addition | 17 | 5, 12 out, let result 17 on the stack |
| 3 | stacking | 17, 3 | |
| - | subtract | 14 | 17, 3 out of stack, let result 14 into stack |

When the calculation is complete, there is only one operand on the stack, which is the result of the expression `14`.

### Desktop calculator dc

`dc` is an open-source calculator that uses a suffix representation. Traditionally, the `bc` calculator program, which uses a midfix representation, is implemented on top of `dc`.

For the above example, let's try to do something with `dc`. Type `dc -e '5 1 2 + 4 * + 3 - p'` in the terminal to get `14`. Problem solved.

## Geometry

### Geometry drawing software **geogebra**

Installation command: `# pkg install geogebra`

## Linear programming

GLPK installation: `# pkg install glpk`

In linear programming, we often use the **simplex method**.
At the computer level, there is a lot of software that can free our brains, and you can even get a good answer in the OFFICE Forms software "Planning Solution".
Here we briefly introduce the use of the command line free linear programming package GLPK. We hope you can learn from it.

Let's start with an example from the book "Operations Research : An Introduction" by Hamdy A. Tara, Example 2.4-1.

> A bank plans to lend up to 12 million. The following table shows the relevant data.
>
> | Loan Type | Interest Rate | Bad Debt Rate |
> | :---: | :---: | :---: |
> | Personal | 0.14 | 0.1 |
> | Auto | 0.13 | 0.07 |
> | Household | 0.12 | 0.03 |
| 0.125 | 0.05 | Agriculture
> | Commercial | 0.1 | 0.02 |
> 
> Bad debt means no profit is generated and the principal is not recovered. In order to compete with other commercial institutions, the sum of agricultural and commercial loans should not be less than 40% of all loans; in order to revitalize the real estate industry, personal loans, household loans and personal loans should account for at least 50% of the total; and the maximum allowable bad debt rate for banks is 4% of all loans.
> 
> Find out how to allocate the highest profit to the bank.

Let's analyze it step by step. First, let the volume of loans for personal, automotive, household, agricultural and commercial be x1, x2, x3, x4 and x5, respectively.

Profit = 0.14 - 0.9 x1 + 0.13 - 0.93 x2 + 0.12 - 0.97 x3 + 0.125 - 0.95 x4 + 0.1 - 0.98 x5

Principal loss = 0.1 x1 + 0.07 x2 + 0.03 x3 + 0.05 x4 + 0.02 x5

The objective function max z = profit - loss of principal;

Next, the reader can find the constraints according to the question.

From the above objective function and constraints, we can give the following mathematical model.

```
max z = 0.026 x1 + 0.0509 x2 + 0.0864 x3 + 0.06875 x4 + 0.78 x5

s.t. x1 + x2 + x3 + x4 + x5 <= 1200,
    x4 + x5 <= 0.4 (x1 + x2 + x3 + x4 + x5),
    x3 >= 0.5 (x1 + x2 + x3),
    0.1 x1 + 0.07 x2 + 0.03 x3 + 0.05 x4 + 0.02 x5 <= 0.04 (x1 + x2 + x3 + x4 + x5),
    xi >= 0 (i = 1, 2, 3, 4, 5)
```

Create a new text file named ``example`` and enter.

```
var x1 >= 0;
var x2 >= 0;
var x3 >= 0;
var x4 >= 0;
var x5 >= 0;

maximize z: 0.026*x1 + 0.0509*x2 + 0.0864*x3 + 0.06875*x4 + 0.78*x5;
s.t. C1: x1 + x2 + x3 + x4 + x5 <= 1200;
s.t. C2: x4 + x5 <= 0.4*(x1 + x2 + x3 + x4 + x5);
s.t. C3: x3 >= 0.5*(x1 + x2 + x3);
s.t. C4: 0.1*x1 + 0.07*x2 + 0.03*x3 + 0.05*x4 + 0.02*x5 <= 0.04*(x1 + x2 + x3 + x4 + x5);
end;
```

After saving, type `$ glpsol -m example -o example.out`, and open the **example.out** file to see the solution values: x3 = 720, x5 = 480, and the rest of the values are 0.

Problem solved.

## Physics and Chemistry

* Periodic table of elements `GPeriodic`: ` # pkg install gperiodic`

## Astronomy and Geography

* Stellarium star map software: ` # pkg install stellarium`
* Gnome maps: `# pkg install gnome-maps`

## Art

### Music

- MIDI sequencer `LMMS`: `# pkg install lmms`
- Score making software `MuseScore`: `# pkg install musescore`

### 3D graphics

- 3D graphics software `Blender`: `# pkg install blender`

### Painting

- Krita: `# pkg install krita`
- MyPaint: `# pkg install mypaint`

