# 2.11 Sound Card and Network Card Setup

## FreeBSD Sound Card

### Sound setup

First load the sound card driver.

```
# sysrc snd_hda="YES"
```

Then reboot.

Check the current sound card device with the following command

```
$ cat /dev/sndstat
Installed devices:
pcm0: <NVIDIA (0x0083) (HDMI/DP 8ch)> (play)
pcm1: <NVIDIA (0x0083) (HDMI/DP 8ch)> (play)
pcm2: <NVIDIA (0x0083) (HDMI/DP 8ch)> (play)
pcm3: <NVIDIA (0x0083) (HDMI/DP 8ch)> (play)
pcm4: <Realtek ALC892 (Rear Analog 5.1/2.0)> (play/rec) default
pcm5: <Realtek ALC892 (Front Analog)> (play/rec)
pcm6: <Realtek ALC892 (Rear Digital)> (play)
No devices installed from userspace.
No devices installed from userspace.
```

followed by default is the oss default device. If the software's audio uses oss and the output is default, the audio will be output from this device.

Most FreeBSD software has oss as the audio output driver, some default to pulseaudio (e.g. firefox), see the last tip for settings for these software.

The following commands modify the output device. The number at the end is the number after the corresponding pcm.

```
$ sysctl hw.snd.default_unit=5
```

Here are a few recommended oss mixers.

|GUI environment|name|
|:---:|:---:|
|kde5|audio/dsbmixer|
|gtk|audio/gtk-mixer|
|non-graphical|audio/mixertui|

### Tips

But oss has some drawbacks, you can't record oss output with `obs-studio`. Only oss input can be recorded. Looking at the official forum, you can `virtual_oss` simulate a device to achieve this.

But `obs-studio` can record the audio from pulseaudio output.

So some software can use pulseaudio as output. The audio output of software that uses pulseaudio is not controlled by the above command. pulseaudio will send the audio to the corresponding device according to its own settings, so you need to use the pulseaudio mixer to control it.

In the audio controller that comes with kde5, the switch device is the pulseaudio control.

Some of the official packaged multimedia software supports pulseaudio AGVDbNVutgwiep6615bjTJnQkScwWuUEMuU95NredRG5 ports with the compile option to compile it yourself. Set pulseaudio as the audio driver output in the software and you're done!
