# 2.6 ee Usage and Network Configuration

## Overview

### ee usage

ee is much simpler to use than nano. It is a text editor that comes with thebase system.

For example

```
# ee a.txt
```

Press ESC, a prompt box will be displayed, press enter twice to save.

### Network configuration

First `ifconfig` to see if there is a network card, if not then it is out of the scope of this section. Please note that `lo0` is not the real NIC, if you can only see this it means your NIC is not properly driven.

Example output.

```
root@ykla:~ # ifconfig
genet0: flags=8843<UP,BROADCAST,RUNNING,SIMPLEX,MULTICAST> metric 0 mtu 1500
	options=68000b<RXCSUM,TXCSUM,VLAN_MTU,LINKSTATE,RXCSUM_IPV6,TXCSUM_IPV6>
	ether dc:a6:1a:2e:f4:4t
	inet 192.168.123.157 netmask 0xffffff00 broadcast 192.168.123.255
	media: Ethernet autoselect (1000baseT <full-duplex>)
	status: active
	nd6 options=29<PERFORMNUD,IFDISABLED,AUTO_LINKLOCAL>
lo0: flags=8049<UP,LOOPBACK,RUNNING,MULTICAST> metric 0 mtu 16384
	options=680003<RXCSUM,TXCSUM,LINKSTATE,RXCSUM_IPV6,TXCSUM_IPV6>
	inet6 ::1 prefixlen 128
	inet6 fe80::1%lo0 prefixlen 64 scopeid 0x2
	inet 127.0.0.1 netmask 0xff000000
	groups: lo
	nd6 options=21<PERFORMNUD,AUTO_LINKLOCAL>
root@ykla:~ # 
```

The following applies to both virtual and physical machines.

By default, FreeBSD is properly networked, if not it may be because DNS is not properly configured.

```
# ee /etc/resolv.conf
```

Clear out the contents. Add the following.

```
nameserver 223.5.5.5 # Ali DNS, same below
nameserver 223.6.6.6
nameserver 8.8.8.8 #Google DNS, for foreign devices
````
After that restart the network configuration

```
# /etc/netstart restart
```

Try pinging 163.com. (Press ctrl + C to interrupt)

Example output.

```
root@ykla:~ # ping 163.com
PING 163.com (123.58.180.7): 56 data bytes
64 bytes from 123.58.180.7: icmp_seq=0 ttl=55 time=30.617 ms
64 bytes from 123.58.180.7: icmp_seq=1 ttl=55 time=30.608 ms
64 bytes from 123.58.180.7: icmp_seq=2 ttl=55 time=30.633 ms
^C
--- 163.com ping statistics ---
3 packets transmitted, 3 packets received, 0.0% packet loss
round-trip min/avg/max/stddev = 30.608/30.619/30.633/0.010 ms
root@ykla:~ # 
```

Network connection.

## Detailed usage

Press `ESC` after editing to bring up the prompt box, enter `a` to save.

- \ or [ key to display the main menu.
- o Enter the ASCII code, e.g., enter 65 to display A.
- u Jump to the end of the file.
- t Jump to the beginning of the file.
- c Enter command. After pressing Ctrl+c, command instructions appear in the upper menu, for example you can type a number directly to move the cursor to a certain line.
- y search. After pressing Ctrl+y, you can enter the string you want to search for. If you want to search for the next string, just press Ctrl+x again. The preset search is case-insensitive; to make it case-sensitive, you can press Ctrl+c and type case. To cancel, just press Ctrl+c again and type nocase.
- a Go to the beginning of the line.
- e Go to the end of the line.
- d Delete the character at the cursor location.
- j Paste the last deleted character.
- k Deletes an entire line at the cursor location.
- l Paste the last deleted line.
- w Deletes a word.
- r Paste the last deleted word.
- p Moves the cursor to the previous line.
- n Moves the cursor to the next line.
- b Moves the cursor to the previous word, same as the arrow keys left.
- f Moves the cursor to the next word, as with the right arrow key.
- g Next page.
- v Previous page.
- z Move to the next word.
- Leave ee. If the file has been modified, it will ask you if you want to save the file.
