# 0.1 Deficiencies of FreeBSD

- FreeBSD does not provide a basic system with a GUI for users, and even the graphics card drivers need to be compiled and installed by themselves via ports.
- FreeBSD's drivers are poor, and until recently would have been perfect for supporting WIFI 6 network cards, such as the AX210.
- FreeBSD has very few developers, which means that your bugs may not be fixed for a long time, and packages are not always up to date like ARCH.
- There is relatively little documentation available for FreeBSD.
- Because systemd is not compatible with operating systems other than Linux, a lot of software, such as NetworkManager, cannot be ported, and the components of the desktop environment cannot be improved.
- The FreeBSD chicory is even more arrogant than Linux, as they do not care whether you can change the source or not, whether you can set up a proxy or not, and whether you need an official mirror in your country.
- Due to the basic goals and design of the FreeBSD project, the FreeBSD base system does not include some of the software and commands commonly used in Linux, such as `lspci`, `free`. Some can be installed on their own, others cannot.
- FreeBSD's two file systems, ZFS and UFS, can only be expanded and not shrunk, a strange design.
- FreeBSD's virtualization technology, Byhve, is difficult to use, there is no front-end GUI to control it, and there is a lack of a unified tutorial for setting parameters.

>The concept of what we now call container technology first emerged in 2000 as FreeBSD jail, a technology that partitioned FreeBSD systems into multiple subsystems (also called Jails). jails were developed as secure environments that system administrators could share with multiple users inside or outside the enterprise. in 2001, through In 2001, the implementation of isolated environments entered the Linux space with Jacques Gélinas' VServer project. After this fundamental work on multiple controlled user spaces in Linux, Linux containers began to take shape and eventually evolved into what they are today. 2008 saw the arrival of Docker with the company's namesake container technology via dotCloud. -- <https://www.redhat.com/zh/topics/containers/whats-a-linux-container>

