# 14.8 TCP BBR

TCP BBR is a congestion control algorithm developed by Google. The effect is twofold.

1. **Make full use of bandwidth on network links that have a certain packet loss rate.** 

2. **Reduces buffer occupancy on a network link, thus reducing latency.**

In general, if you use proxy software, it is recommended to turn on the TCP BBR feature, which will have a very significant effect in terms of speed and stability. This project is in FreeBSD and was developed with the help of the Netflix team. Minimum system version support: _r363032_, which means that FreeBSD 13.0 is recommended.

## Modify the kernel configuration

`# cd /usr/src/sys/amd64/conf`

If you did not choose to install the kernel source code when installing FreeBSD, we recommend reading the later section.

`# cp GENERIC GENERIC-bbr`

`# ee GENERIC-bbr`

Adjust the configuration by changing the value of `ident` to `GENERIC-bbr` and adding the following items under the `ident` entry.

```
options TCPHPTS
options RATELIMIT
makeoptions WITH_EXTRA_TCP_STACKS=1
```

Create a new `/etc/src.conf` with the following content:

```
KERNCONF=GENERIC-bbr
MALLOC_PRODUCTION=yes
```

## Compile and install the kernel

```
# /usr/sbin/config GENERIC-bbr
# cd ... /compile/GENERIC-bbr
# make cleandepend && make depend
# make -jN+1
```

where `N` is suggested to be the `CPU core count`.

`# make install`

Install the kernel, and reboot to use the new kernel when finished.

`# uname -a`

If `GENERIC-bbr` is displayed, the TCP BBR kernel is compiled and installed successfully.

## Configure and load the BBR module

`# sysrc kld_list+="tcp_rack tcp_bbr"`

Load the BBR module at boot time.

`# echo 'net.inet.tcp.functions_default=bbr' >> /etc/sysctl.conf`

Set the default to use BBR and reboot.

`# sysctl net.inet.tcp.functions_default`

If the result is `net.inet.tcp.functions_default: bbr`, then TCP BBR is enabled successfully.

**Note:** For troubleshooting and other matters, please refer to.

<https://github.com/netflix/tcplog_dumper>

