# 22.1 How to Report a Bug

What do you do when you encounter a problem?


First, make sure you're not causing the problem yourself.

- Look at lists of frequently asked questions, documentation manuals, whatever

- Use the search engines well!

- Search past mailing lists to see if anyone has mentioned a similar issue

- Ask the mailing list


If you're having problems with a system you just upgraded, look at the instructions for **/usr/src/UPDATING**, and if you just upgraded third-party software, look at **/usr/ports/UPDATING** and **/usr/ports/CHANGES**.


Then, ask yourself, is this a **bug**? If the question can be phrased as a question (e.g. "How do I do ...... and where do I get ......?") then please go to the FreeBSD mailing list and ask first.

If this is a **bug**, make sure that your version is supported, otherwise no one will care.

Be sure this **bug** is not fixed!

- Check the system version for updates and patches

- Search the FreeBSD bug management system for anyone who has reported a similar problem

If no one has reported a similar problem, then you need to write

***

Please do not submit issues such as.

- There is a new version of an application (they have automatic notifications!)

- For software that is not maintained, if you don't have a patch, just reporting a bug is likely to go unnoticed (if you want to maintain it, submit your request)

- If you can't reproduce the problem, it will be difficult for others to fix it

- Add new features (you can appeal to the FreeBSD mailing list, but why not make one yourself!)


Decide who you should report the problem to.

- For issues with basic system components, documentation, and web sites, please direct them to the FreeBSD developers.

- For software that is distributed with the system but maintained by others, please also submit to the FreeBSD developers unless it can be determined that the issue is not system related.

- For those third-party software, please submit to the software developer unless it can be determined that the issue is system related.

***

Report writing tips.

- Do not leave the "Summary" field blank, as it is the title of the mass email.

- The "Summary" should be representative and concise.

- If you have a patch, be sure to upload it.

- Indicate your system version, computer architecture, and if you compiled the software yourself, include the compilation settings.

- If the problem is reproducible, indicate the conditions under which the problem arose.

- If it is a kernel problem, please prepare your: hardware configuration, kernel configuration, whether debugging options are enabled, error messages or /var/log/messages, state that you have looked at /usr/src/UPDATING and did not solve the problem (because someone always asks), and whether you can run other kernels.

- If it is a third-party software problem, have your: installed software that overrides all environment variables set by default in bsd.port.mk, declare that you have looked at /usr/ports/UPDATING and that it did not fix the problem (because someone will always ask).

- One report does one thing, don't report a bunch of things unless they are closely related.

- Be cautious about controversial issues, it's best to discuss them first.

- Pay attention to the layout format, especially when copying and pasting.

- Remember to back up your report, in case the net is bad and you don't submit on it.

- Be polite, we are almost all volunteers who don't get paid a penny, so please be more understanding.


Now, it's time to fill out the form!

Note that your email is public, so you may receive harassment, so please protect yourself or use a public email address!

- Summary: A brief summary.

- Severity: severity, only affects me / affects some people / affects many people, do not overrate

- Category: Category

- kern kernel, library, built-in driver (manual 2-4), except USB subsystem, multi-threaded library

- bin Built-in programs

- ports Third-party programs

- conf configuration files or startup scripts (manual 5)

- docs documentation or website

- usb USB subsystem

- threads Multi-threaded libraries

- standards standards compliance

- (architecture name) related to architecture

- misc Other, or really can't find the problem (best to ask the mailing list first)

- Environment environment, including system version, program version, system configuration, etc.

- Description Description of the problem, complete and detailed. Do not add your guesses about the problem

***

After submission, you will receive a confirmation email that you can use to track progress. Stay tuned, remember to respond promptly if more information is requested, be patient,[_sit and relax_](https://jikipedia.com/definition/732345544), and trust that your problem will be solved soon!

***

Have fun in the **FreeBSD** family!
