# Section 7 Python and VScode

In this section, we will assume that you have successfully set up the `pkg` tool. If you haven't, please refer to the previous section of this book to set it up.

## Python

In FreeBSD, the different Python versions are packaged separately. Meaning, Python 3.8 and Python 3.11 are in different packages. Just like `llvm11` and `llvm13`.

However, as of FreeBSD 13, the most fully supported Python is Python 3.8. `pip` and `numpy` tools are only packaged for `py38`. That's why the dummy package `python3` points to `python38`.

So to install Python, you need to do this.

```
# pkg install python38 py38-pip
```

Of course you can also install Python by.

```
# pkg install python311
```

or something like that to request a newer version of Python. Keep in mind, however, that the latest version of Python may not be as complete on FreeBSD. (Requires the use of ports)

However, it is better than some Linux distributions that never maintain a single version of Python, regardless of the consequences of doing so.

## VS Code

In the old days, FreeBSD users wanted to install VS Code manually by downloading the source from GitHub, configuring their own Electron build environment, and then compiling VS Code themselves, or by using the Linux compatibility layer to run the VS Code RPM packages directly.

However, since VS Code has entered the ports tree, and thus the pkg repo, you don't have to do that anymore. Directly.

```
# pkg install vscode
```

Then you can write code.

Note that the VS Code you get in this way is actually Code - OSS. The difference between Code - OSS and VS Code will not be explained here, but you can [see](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode/wiki/Differences-) for those who are interested. between-the-repository-and-Visual-Studio-Code).

Just to mention that Microsoft's Python/PyLance plug-in and LLVM's clangd plug-in are known to run directly from Code - OSS and are no different from VS Code.

Microsoft's Remote Development also works with Code - OSS without any problems.

Setting up the synchronization service does not seem to work.
