# 22.8 Configuring the Rust/Go Environment

## Installing the Rust language

Choose one of the following installation methods

### FreeBSD package

`# pkg install rust`

### Rust official packaging (not recommended)

- Install: `curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh`
- Upgrade: `cd ~` `. /.cargo/bin/rustup update`
- Delete: `. /cargo/bin/rustup self uninstall`

After successful installation, type `rustc --version` or `cargo --version` to check the software version.

### Blessings for a better world

`cd ~`

`mkdir projects && cd projects`

`cargo new greeting`

`cd greeting`

`ee src/main.rs`

Add the following text.

```
fn main() {
    println!("Hello, world!");
}
```

After saving, run `cargo run` to output the code.

## Installing the Go language

Choose one of the following installation methods

### FreeBSD package

`# pkg install go`

### Golang official packaging (not recommended).

- Download the binary package: [download address](https://golang.google.cn/dl/) 
> Select the `goXXX.freebsd-amd64.tar.gz` or `goXXX.freebsd-386.tar.gz` package.

- Unpack the binary package: Using the amd64 architecture as an example, the terminal code is as follows
> `tar -C /usr/local -xzf https://golang.google.cn/dl/go1.18.1.freebsd-amd64.tar.gz`

- Add environment variables. 
> open `.profile` in text mode, add a line `export PATH=$PATH:/usr/local/go/bin`

After successful installation, type `go version` to see the software version.

### Blessings for a better world

Create a new text named `helloWorld.go` and add the following.

```
package main

import "fmt"

func main() {
    fmt.Println("Hello, World!")
}
```

After saving, run `go run helloWorld.go ` in the terminal to output the code.

