# 1.5 Why Use FreeBSD

## General reasons for choosing FreeBSD

 - From the Taoist side, choose if you like, too long to read, don't use? Turn left for Linux, Windows, no thanks.

 - From Buddhism, because of karma. Everything is karmic and empty, we are destined to meet and we are destined to leave. All things are like that.

 - In Christianity, it's the Lord's guidance. Just like the Exodus, you seem to be making your own choices, but in reality it is all the Lord's arrangement.

 - In terms of dialectical materialism, it's the connection; FreeBSD is a direct descendant of UNIX, Linux is a knockoff, and many protocols are inseparable from UNIX, so you were meant to be here.

 - In my personal opinion, the pursuit of stable and new software requires both binary sources and the ability to compile and install. I can't find Linux systems other than FreeBSD.

 - The BSD Three License Agreement: and allows for free distribution. what is truly free, the GPL or the BSD agreement?

 - FreeBSD is the product of an academic open source practice and a faithful practitioner of the UNIX philosophy.

 - Staying away from fragmented Linux distributions saves hard-to-choose users from pain.

 - BSD is a complete OS, not a kernel. The kernel and base system are maintained as a whole as a project.

 - The Linux community has become a dirty quagmire, both for kernel development and for user groups. --Visit Literature story.

## Technical reasons for choosing FreeBSD

 - The base system configuration files are separate from the third-party software configuration files. You won't run into something as odd as using the rpm command to uninstall glibc in RHEL, which leads to system destruction; FreeBSD's package manager does not interfere with the base system.

 - Documentation is complete, and all general issues are covered in the Handbook.

 - Fewer security vulnerabilities than Linux.

 - Common failure points in the product/architecture can be avoided.

 - Nearly 2.5 year release cycle, with a 5 year maintenance cycle giving FreeBSD stability.

 - Software can be compiled and installed for free configuration via BSD's Ports.

 - The ZFS file system can be configured as a ``partition'', and is considered the most powerful file system available.

 - Jail and byhve virtualization, no need to configure the underlying virtualization, saving system resources.

 - Traditional BSD INIT boot, so you are not persecuted by systemd.

 - DTrace framework and GEOM storage framework.

 - Linux binary compatibility layer to run Linux software as long as it supports CentOS or Ubuntu/Debian and the software runs faster than Linux.

 - Security event auditing.

## The social implications of choosing FreeBSD

> Obviously: the current lack of desktop components on FreeBSD is largely due to their over-reliance on Linux-specific libraries, such as the `iproute2` package that contains the `ip` command. More often than not, these desktops or components are deeply bundled with systemd or are simply forced to rely on it, such as `NetworkManager`. Samba developers will say "We use Linux, we develop for Linux, all others please submit patches". Linuxism" (Linuxism/Linuxism), a term you will see again in the links cited in the literature chapter, and which some people are proud of.
> 
> We don't know the consequences of this behavior, but it is becoming more and more common and mainstream, even most developers no longer consider init compatibility when developing programs like `todesk`. Even Java programs have lost their portability, why has Eclipse on FreeBSD not been updated for almost two years? It is because of these [bundling issues](https://git.eclipse.org/r/c/platform/eclipse.platform.swt/+/163641/). Recently there was even `systemd-boot` to replace `grub2`, and Linux will be unified by systemd in the foreseeable future. And its programs (and it is expected that all programs that can run on Linux) will no longer have any portability.
> 
> Maybe Linux open source has come to an end. "You can keep building your wheels, but you can't run any programs unless you're compatible with my systemd." This dilemma that FreeBSD now faces will be faced by all. While UNIX has become irrelevant, there is no doubt that Linux has completely abandoned the philosophy and ideas from which it was built.

 - By choosing FreeBSD, you are choosing to keep a flame in the fire after Linux is controlled by systemd and the commercial companies behind it. Looking at all the major operating systems, the only one that has the ability to replace it is FreeBSD, the open source operating system.

 - By choosing FreeBSD, you are choosing to keep a copy of a truly open source, free operating system. To be able to keep the open source cause alive, and to practice the true UNIX philosophy, and not take the evil path of changing the flag, the path of closure.
