# 1.6 The so-called open source philosophy

What I want to say is, as Zhuangzi said in the South China Sutra; "I have an end to my life, but there is no end to my knowledge. If I follow the endless with the endless, it's almost done!" So I do not emphasize the so-called lifelong learning concept. People can promote the Way, not the Way to promote people. Knowledge is learned by oneself, and even if one can transmit gongfu to others like a terrifyingly powerful person, the person receiving it cannot exhaust all the dao. Human life is short, the whole human life for the universe and how short! If you do not understand this truth, you will always be exploited.

If hardship is wealth, then in FreeBSD is such an amalgam of wealth. If suffering is a philosophy, then the alias for that philosophy is called FreeBSD philosophy.

When one thinks of the word open source, one thinks first of the GNU Project, and second of such projects as FreeBSD.

There is a lot of sarcasm about Microsoft, saying that the IDE running on Microsoft Windows is garbage, hiding the details under the hood, and that the four steps of "preprocess, compile, assemble, link" are all done at the click of a button. At this point, someone will come out and say let's use Linux, install GCC, write code with VIM, and debug with GDB. How garbage it is to use Windows, you enter Linux!

Since then, I've been in the dusty net for 30 years. From Ubuntu to Gentoo, I've changed hundreds of distributions, but I haven't reached my original intention.

We all know that the keyboard comes first, then the mouse, now you save money on the mouse. Remove Xorg, you say the desktop takes up memory; remove Windows, you say save hard disk space. After remembering thousands of commands in VIM, you find that Notepad works better.

This is where the misery begins.

I don't see any commendable reason to load Bilibili's HTML player under TTY. Nor can I see where using the xfce desktop system, which has a graphical interface superior to macOS or Windows. But some still show their ubiquitous superiority as usual.

Open source is not a utopia, it means Free. It means free from all responsibility. You have to rely on yourself.

I can't figure out why we went into the Bronze Age and then back to the Stone Age. You say for development efficiency, to save hardware costs, to save the cost of legitimate software. I say, now the device, even embedded no longer use assembly for development, but the use of C language; now the notebook, the memory standard upgrade to 8G; and genuine or not, we all know, for open source, but also not arbitrary commercial.

Freedom, light weight, security and stability seem to be synonymous with open source. In fact, it is not, freedom is not to give you the code to let you modify and compile yourself, spend hours. You say you compiled the software to run efficiently, but can not get any papers as evidence.

The open source philosophy, which claims to help each other. I'm sorry that I don't see this in the famous IRC channel. For domestic forums, communities, all kinds of messy logs posted, you can only get ridicule, like years of ugly daughter-in-law boiled into an evil mother-in-law "what https, do you know openssh? Do you know what the certificate is? I don't know you ask a ..." This cycle is repeated, I don't need to say more, there is an association in advertising for their former president. In the end, it is not knowledge that is needed, it is all about money and the capital to mock others with abandon.

Even for servers, most people use CentOS, I do not see where it is better than Scientific Linux. The nature is the same. Only those who really understand will know how ignorant it is to blindly follow the crowd and delve into something without rational understanding.

In today's prevalent graphical interface, we should not drive backwards in history. Nor should we make OSS only for server. Those who say FreeBSD doesn't work, probably haven't used iOS; those who say Linux is garbage, probably haven't used Android.

People with a philosophy of suffering are like people in a bag.

The purpose of this book is to promote the Way, at a time when some people are treating FreeBSD like Linux. Many people complain that our traditional culture is dying in steel and concrete. Many of these traditional skills and techniques have been lost because of some so-called feudal views, such as passing on the skills to men but not to women, teaching the disciple to starve the master, not to pass on the skills, and so on. It is believed that the real skills, real abilities and real techniques should be disclosed.

The three truths of real skills, real abilities and real techniques, I call him the Taoist method. Whether it is simple or not, it is all Taoism. 1+1=2 is also Taoism, and how to prove that 1+1=2 is also Taoism. From this aspect, everything we know is the Dao. But why do we name it Tao, we will discuss it in the next chapter.

I believe that the Tao should not be passed on lightly.

Light transmission does not mean not passing it on at all, but passing it on in its entirety under the right conditions. In a nutshell, any place where knowledge is objectively free to acquire is a place of deception. Here, Bill Gates must strongly agree with this view.

To take a well-known example, in the Journey to the West, the five monks and their disciples went to the West to get scriptures. Were there no scriptures in the East at that time? Not really. It was not only their destiny to go through the deliberate ninety-nine tribulations, but also because Taoism is not to be passed on lightly, and it is a rare monk who knows one scripture well, let alone ten or a hundred.

In terms of Taoism, not everyone can read the scriptures, because there is no Taoist law, ordinary people do not know which words should be avoided, which is the Taoist monk can read, which the monk can not read, read in what direction, pinch what kind of handprints, from which to which, how many times should be read, what day is taboo. And these only the master will tell you, others will not tell you.

It can be seen that the two Buddhas and Taoists, both sober and do this: do not lightly spread the Tao. It is not simply advocating religiously not to lightly transmit the Dao, but that the two have a deeper understanding, and the implementation of the more correct. Many writers of mystery novels also recognize this view of not passing on the Dao lightly. The predecessors collected all kinds of canonical collections in the great mountains and left them for those who have the destiny. There are two reasons for this, the dangerous place is less crowded, not really destined people can not come; to take things difficult, not easy to get things. There is a northern proverb "listen to the advice of others, eat a full meal", the experienced family of the elderly will tell you a lot of things, not necessarily right, not necessarily wrong, but certainly can eat a full meal, can not eat well. The poet said the road more divergent, divergent road dead sheep, do not have to tell young friends this road does not work, as much as they can let their heads break, which is youth, even if therefore lost life. The reason is that no one will listen to what you say, and what you say is indeed the way, and also spread out, but what effect has it had? Not really. The chattering can be stopped, it has no effect.

Modern society advocates knowledge sharing, but I can see that no one shares core journals and professional academic papers. So what is it that is being shared? Is it a fake story like Washington cutting down a tree or a rumor like instant noodles are junk food? The catechism I see is just a reading of the book, the quality of the book is poor, and this catechism is even worse. It's not in the talent, how about the level of catechism in some foreign universities? Not bad. Why? Because it's not a catechism at all, it's a recorded class, that's all. People always want to take advantage of the free ones, not knowing that they are consumed by themselves and the additional opportunity cost of time. Therefore, I assert that free catechism is not good. Even if the class is good, it is unlikely to have much impact. As stated above, when you pass the doxa out, you don't care about the recipient, and you can't care about the recipient. This is the downside of passing the Dao lightly, wasting your time money and emotions and mine.

As stated in the book "The Ideal State", there must be a way for the Dao to be passed on. If the transmission ceases, it is an inevitable law and cannot be forced. Even if the effort is preserved, it is bound to be the hangover of history.

AGVDbNVutgwiep6615bjTJnQkScwWuUEMuU95NredRG5 Linux is better than Windows. The average person here also includes people who have not been exposed to computer education. So no one recommends Linux to the general user community unless he has an ulterior motive. Merchants may be mercenary, but they also do it for the sake of the transmission of the doxa. If items were free, no one would do it anymore. This is where the copyright patent comes from. It is a terrible thing to make people lose their desire. The community is now facing this dilemma.

Many professional books are written for profit, such as how many days to master C++, and how many years to publish a book to mislead people. Not to preach, but to make money or selfishly spread knowledge. Such books can only discourage learners. It seems to be able to popularize culture for a short time, but in the long run it creates a wrong environment and knowledge atmosphere, causing a bigger gap with others.

Preaching is not so easy. Everyone can preach the Word, but the Word preached is not necessarily the Word one thinks one can preach.

Living in a dream and waking up only to find that you still don't know what hurts. The end of the future is already predetermined, but you still have to struggle cowardly to steal your life.

Just like a virtual machine running in a physical machine, always thinking you are real. A miserable life is designed, whether the state machine sets us up as students who love our country and love our people, or we ourselves are unwilling to be a cut-off point on the circle. It is common in the past and present to use the late bloomer as a reason for one's failure to achieve anything, to relieve oneself, to encourage oneself, and to believe that one can make a difference, to stand up to the world. As if many people see through, see through, live openly, unrestrained. To the sky a smile, "see the clear and what is the use, ultimately is their own embarrassment to themselves." Sigh floating clouds long up and long gone, the tide ebbs and flows; sad fog sometimes, and there is no way out.

Young like tea overflowing the cup, tragedy nothing; long time is ultimately better than spilling all.

Not other things smoothed our edges, it is their own smoothed themselves. Things meet injustice, the gentleman is not a tool, not willing to become the object of others to use, but all this is the naked bloody greed violence, are changing these. The great events of the world are by no means accidental, rather than colluding with one another than sending love to the landscape.

The great weapon can not be, the will of God is difficult to disobey. According to the materialistic dialectic view is not correct. But I thought he was right, and I wasn't going to sacrifice myself for some ism, in case he was wrong. I have no chance to verify it, and those who verify it get only an unknown, full of unknowability. From the above point of view, it seems that although the great instrument is late, the warp is also a great one.
