# 1.8 Linux User Migration Guidelines

As a result of the GNU open source movement, most people's understanding of open source has been confined to the GPL and Linux, and they have been unable to enter the BSD world of FreeBSD, mainly by organizations that claim to be **open source communities**, but whose actual, concrete activities do not go beyond the basic boundaries of Linux. This article was written for this reason.

The comparison between the two has already been written about in the previous article, so it is pointless to repeat it. To emphasize the superiority of FreeBSD would be a long-winded nonsense. Instead of emphasizing FreeBSD, let's get into Linux, the real Linux.

The following statements may be offensive to some, but they are true.

## Comparison of the major GNU/LInux distributions

### Ubuntu

Ubuntu is known as an internal error distribution. Some people argue that "that's Ubuntu being modest and taking the blame for bugs that don't belong to them", but it's irrefutable that Ubuntu is based on Debian's SID version, which is not guaranteed to be stable.

### Fedora

Fedora is commonly known as "gutter oil", is based on RHEL upstream system, I prefer to call it a mouse distribution, the fundamental purpose of its release is to test the new design and architecture of the RHEL system, to be stable after migration to RHEL. stability can be seen. This shows that the so-called successful business model for Linux is to test it for free in the open source community, and then introduce an enterprise version once it has been tested and stabilized. More on wine and crossover for example?

### CentOS/Rocky Linux/RHEL

Currently, CentOS is no longer the operating system built on RHEL source code, but a midstream test system of RHEL, similar to Fedora. There are a variety of alternatives, even the so-called **Euler Systems**, which are UNIX certified. But I think Rocky Linux is more promising. These systems are widely deployed on servers, with the specific disadvantage of sacrificing "newness" for "stability" and very old software versions.

### Debian

Debian is commonly known as "the shit". One strange thing is that sudo is not installed if you set the root password, and Debian packages are not updated much. （Debian packages are not updated much. (This is only for stable).

### OpenSUSE

OpenSUSE is commonly known as the Big Lizard. One of the funniest things he did was his version number, in honor of this number "42" written by British author Douglas Adams in The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, (called "the ultimate answer to life, the universe and everything the answer to life, And the funny thing is, going from 42 to 15 is supposed to be an upgrade, but 42 is a bigger version than 15, so you get to 15 and then you upgrade to 42 in reverse. So now the question is, when you get to 41, do you upgrade to 42 or 43?

### Gentoo

Gentoo is commonly known as a "meta-distribution". Everything has to be installed by **compiling** the software. The disadvantage is obvious, if a program doesn't compile, it can't be installed, and in fact there are many such programs. Some people will argue that Gentoo has a binary installation, but that also requires you to build locally first, and there is no unified official binary source. Once you don't update for a while, Gentoo will show you what it means to have **recurring dependencies**. And Gentoo is difficult to deploy on a large scale and on servers. Also Gentoo's portage (package manager) is written in python, which directly causes delays in calculating dependencies: on a Raspberry Pi 4, installing KDE 5 often takes several hours ......

In short, Gentoo binds the user with its own philosophy, complicating simple problems and torturing itself; USE is too complex, and for some common software, there are often circular dependency problems, destroying system stability and making it difficult to install and upgrade software and uninstall.

### Deepin/UOS/Champion Kirin

The relationship between UOS and Deepin is like RHEL to Fedora, which is essentially the same thing. deepin never seems to test the software, it just pushes the update package to the user, and the most direct result is that he knows the update will cause the system to crash and doesn't withdraw the update, but writes a post in a small corner of the official website and tells you how to fix it? The system of Deepin will cause the desktop to crash just by copying the files, I can't understand how his system is made, don't his own developers need to copy the files?

I have nothing to say about the so-called domestic systems such as the Chinese standard Kirin.

### Arch Linux/Manjaro

Arch Linux is commonly known as the "**cult, shampoo**". It is one of the most unstable Linux distributions I have ever seen, and has the largest number of users on a PC. I have trouble understanding why so many people choose such an unstable operating system. The more software you install, the faster it hangs. Some would say this is what happens when you don't read the release notes, but that's not true. The only good thing about Arch Linux is that the software is new. Arch Linux seems to be tied to the philosophy of suffering, see [Chapter 19 - Section 3] (...). /chapter-19.-literary-stories/19.3-linux-and-the-philosophy-of-suffering.md).

## Differences between FreeBSD and Linux

* FreeBSD still uses the traditional INIT boot, not systemd.
* The FreeBSD root user shell defaults to csh (14 changed to sh), not bash.
* The FreeBSD base system contains almost no software that is not part of the BSD protocol, and is committed to de- GNUization (which means that the base system does not use Glibc, GCC, etc.), see

<https://wiki.freebsd.org/GPLinBase>

* The user and system configuration files for FreeBSD are strictly separated, i.e. the kernel and base system are completely separate from third-party applications.
* The FreeBSD project is maintained as a complete operating system, not as a separate kernel and userland; that is, if you want to use FreeBSD, there is only one FreeBSD to choose from.
* FreeBSD does not have a free command nor does it support installing this package (FreeBSD stopped using procfs long ago); the text editors that come with the FreeBSD base system are ee and vi (not vi with soft links to vim, but real vi); there is no wget pre-installed, but fetch.

## Command substitution/software substitution

Since Linux widely uses the GNU tools as well, the tools will work on FreeBSD as long as they are not theoretically dependent on a specific Linux library.

| Linux Commands/GNU Software | FreeBSD Commands/BSD Software | Required Packages (Installation Method) | Role Description | Additional Notes / Philosophy of Suffering |
| :-------------: | :---------------: | :--------------------: | :-------: | :---------------: |
| lsusb | lsusb | pkg install usbutils | Show USB information | Roughly, you can use `cat /var/run/dmesg` |
| lspci | lspci | pkg install pciutils | Show motherboard information | Roughly you can use `cat /var/run/dmesg` |
| lsblk | lsblk | pkg install lsblk | show disk usage | / |
| free | freecolor | pkg install freecolor | show memory usage | FreeBSD does not provide the `free` command, as it depends on Linux and is provided by the package `procps`, but then, FreeBSD has long since moved away from using `procfs`. If you really need `free` you can use `https://github.com/j-keck/free`. Other optional commands are `vmstat -m` |
| lscpu | lscpu | pkg install lscpu | show processor information | / |
| glibc | bsdlibc | / | C library | / |
| GCC | LLVM + Clang | / | Compilers, compilation chain tools | You can `pkg install gcc` if you want.
| vim | vim | pkg install vim | text editor | FreeBSD's default `vi` is not soft-linked to `vim`, but rather to the real `vi` |
| wget | wget | pkg install wget | downloader | The default system download tool is `fetch` |
| bash | bash | pkg install bash | shell | The default `root shell` is `csh`, which may cause difficulties when configuring the input method environment variables and may not be able to enter recovery mode |
| NetworkManager | networkmgr | pkg install networkmgr | network connection tool | NetworkManager depends on `systemd` and cannot be directly ported |



