# 4.0 Overview

> All FreeBSD installation media do not include a graphical interface by default (DVD's do not work) and need to be installed manually. **Please do not use `sysutils/desktop-installer`, it will cause unnecessary errors and problems.**
>
> It is an unattainable luxury to insist that FreeBSD must exhibit the desktop power of Linux or even Windows; the official FreeBSD slogan is `The power to serve`.


This chapter is not intended to be a guide to installing all desktops, but rather to provide as many options as possible.

The basic steps to install a desktop are: ① Install the graphics driver -> ② Install Xorg -> ③ Install KDE5/Gnome/XFCE/MATE -> ④ Install the display manager sddm/lightdm/slim -> ⑤ Install the input method and other software

Wayland is a replacement for xorg, but the number of desktops that support Wayland on BSD is 0 at the moment.

Gnome can omit step 4 because its display manager gdm is automatically installed in step 2.

The recommended combination of display managers is

KDE5 + sddm

Xfce/Mate + lightdm

Slim is not recommended as the author stopped developing it in 2013, and it can cause some strange bugs (e.g. fcitx5 doesn't work, dbus doesn't load).

The input method framework is currently recommended to use fcitx (for KDE 5 desktops), ibus (for other GTK-based desktops like gnome, xfce, mate......). Do not use scim, the author ran away long time ago (about 16 years ago).

>The environment variables are configured differently for different SHELLs, with FreeBSD using `csh` by default before 14, and `sh` for 14 and later. Also, different desktops load environment variables in different ways, so the configuration method is different for different desktops and different SHELLs, see specific desktops for details.

>Trivia.
>
>sddm gdm lightdm slim messing around with the system.
>
>sddm:behind me is kde
>
>gdm:behind me is gnome
>
>lightdm:behind me can be any
>
>slim:What should I do? So panic, dive too long, the administrator is going to kick me.
>
>system:Hopefully you guys are raising compulsions on my turf?
