# 4.2 Installing KDE 5

> The following tutorial applies to users whose shell is csh/tcsh.
>
>First see if your shell is csh/tcsh now
>
>`# echo $0`
>
> If it's either csh/tcsh, continue.

## Install

```
# pkg install xorg sddm kde5 wqy-fonts xdg-user-dirs
```


> The above command installs the desktop, window manager and Chinese fonts and the tools to create user directories, respectively.

## Configuration

`# ee /etc/fstab`

Add the following:

```
proc /proc procfs rw 0 0
```

>Add proc mount this step is very necessary, if not add will cause the desktop service can not run properly, some components can not be loaded!

>> **Note**
>>
>>If you don't configure proc, all your icons will become unclickable white squares under normal users. And subsequent configuration is also invalid, you must reinstall the system.

Then


```
# sysrc dbus_enable="YES"
# sysrc sddm_enable="YES"
```

and then

```
# echo "exec ck-launch-session startplasma-x11" > ~/.xinitrc
```

> If you have already run it under root, a new user will still have to run it again to use it properly (no root privileges or sudo, etc.) `startx`.

Hint: hal has been removed. **No need** to add ~~hald_enable="YES",~~ See.

<https://www.freshports.org/sysutils/hal>

> normal users also need to add the user to the wheel group.
>
>```
># pw groupmod wheel -m username
>```


>**Note**
>
>**If sddm login is flashing to the login screen, please check if plasma-X11 is in the bottom left corner, it's usually Wayland that is flashing!**
>
>**If you are using a VMware virtual machine and can't see the options at the bottom of sddm, please follow the tutorial in the Configuring Virtual Machines section to configure screen auto-scaling.**

## i18n

Click Start -> System Settings -> Regional Settings and find "Simplified Chinese" in the `Available Language` column of the `Language` item and click `>` to add it to the `Preferrred Languages` column, then click the `Apply` button; then go to the `Formats` item, change the content in the `Region` text box to "China - Simplified Chinese (zh-CN)", click the `Apply` button, logout and log in again, then the The system language will change to Chinese.
