# 4.8 root login desktop

> **Warning**
>
>This section is written in the spirit of freedom, as some users may wish to log in to the desktop as root. Please be aware that the root account has the highest privileges and that misuse of the root account may **damage the system** and therefore use it to log in to the GUI is **an extremely high security risk**. Please use caution and proceed at your own risk with the following.

## lightdm

Installation and configuration.

```
## pkg install lightdm-gtk-greeter lightdm
```

First set up the startup service.

```
# sysrc lightdm_enable="YES"
```

Then modify the configuration file.

- Edit ``# ee /usr/local/etc/lightdm/lightdm.conf``.

Scroll down and find `greeter-show-manual-login=true` remove the `#` in front of it. This line will appear several times, the first time it appears is for your introduction, do not change it, instead you should continue to scroll down.

- Edit `# ee /usr/local/etc/pam.d/lightdm`.

Comment out the line `account requisite pam_securetty.so` (add `#` to the top)

Restart the servicea:

```
# service lightdm restart
```

That will work.

## sddm

Install:

```
# pkg install sddm
# sysrc sddm_enable="YES"
```

Change the `/usr/local/etc/pam.d/sddm` file:

Replace `login` after `include` with `system`, 4 in total.

Restart the service:

```
# service sddm restart
```

After that you can root login to sddm!

#### Note that the option in the lower left corner of sddm cannot be Wayland, it should be Plasma-X11, currently KDE 5 does not support wayland, so you can't log in if you choose wrong!

> **Warning**
> 
> The root account has the highest privileges, and using it incorrectly may **damage the system**, so using it to log into the GUI is **an extremely high security risk**.
