# 5.1 Fcitx input method framework

fcitx 5 adds support for Wayland compared to its predecessor, and is said to be smoother.

>**Note**
>
>There are many unpredictable and strange bugs in FreeBSD-14.0-Current (fcitx5 diagnostic message English is garbled, input method shows strange Chinese characters, fcitx5-qt5 environment does not load properly ......), if conditions permit should be used in FreeBSD- Release refer to use this article.

## Fcitx 4.X

>**Note**
>
>This tutorial has only been tested under KDE 5/csh.

`# pkg install zh-fcitx zh-fcitx-configtool fcitx-qt5 fcitx-m17n zh-fcitx-libpinyin`

Add the following configuration in `.cshrc` and `/etc/csh.cshrc`, this configuration can solve the problem that some windows fcitx is invalid.

```
setenv QT4_IM_MODULE fcitx
setenv GTK_IM_MODULE fcitx
setenv QT_IM_MODULE fcitx
setenv GTK2_IM_MODULE fcitx
setenv GTK3_IM_MODULE fcitx
setenv XMODIFIERS @im=fcitx
```

Add the following two lines in `.cshrc` and `/etc/csh.cshrc` to solve the problem that terminal cannot input Chinese and cannot display Chinese.

```
setenv LANG zh_CN.UTF-8
setenv MM_CHARSET zh_CN.UTF-8
```

Set Fcitx input method to add.

```
# To make the terminal uncluttered you also need to add.
setenv LANG zh_CN.UTF-8
setenv LC_CTYPE zh_CN.UTF-8
setenv LC_ALL zh_CN.UTF-8
```
Autostart.

`# cp /usr/local/share/applications/fcitx.desktop ~/.config/autostart/`

## Fcitx 5.X

>**Note**
>
>This tutorial only pass the test under KDE 5/csh.

`# pkg install fcitx5 fcitx5-qt fcitx5-gtk fcitx5-configtool zh-fcitx5-rime zh-rime-essay zh-fcitx5-chinese-addons`

You can also install it via ports. Environment variables depend on your window manager and desktop and shell. Tested not support slim, may be configuration problem. sddm is available.

Autostart.

`# cp /usr/local/share/applications/org.fcitx.Fcitx5.desktop ~/.config/autostart/`

Do the following configuration in `.cshrc` and `/etc/csh.cshrc`, this configuration can solve the problem that some windows fcitx is invalid and can't input to display i18n.

```
setenv QT4_IM_MODULE fcitx
setenv GTK_IM_MODULE fcitx
setenv QT_IM_MODULE fcitx
setenv GTK2_IM_MODULE fcitx
setenv GTK3_IM_MODULE fcitx
setenv XMODIFIERS @im=fcitx
setenv LANG zh_CN.UTF-8
setenv MM_CHARSET zh_CN.UTF-8
UTF-8
```
Under root user, rime will not be added to input method automatically, you need to add it manually to finish initialization (find fcitx configuration tool in program, add rime input method)! For normal users, if it doesn't work, please check your shell, it should be csh, if not, please add the user to the wheel group. For other shells, please correct the environment variable for the corresponding shell.

The SLIM window will indicate that IBUS cannot find ...... as a suspected bug.
  
## Normal user settings
  
The default shell for normal users is usually not `csh`, so you need to change the default shell to csh to facilitate the configuration.
  
First look at what the shell is: `# echo $0`, if the output is not `csh`, try to change it to `csh`: `# echo $0`, if the output is not `csh`, try to change it to `csh`.

```
# chsh -s /bin/csh
```

Log out of your current account, log back in, and see if the shell changes to `csh`: `` # chsh -s /bin/csh

```
# echo $0
```
  
If `csh` is output, the configuration is successful. Then configure the rest of the environment variables in the same way as described above.
  
**Hint: If you don't want to use csh, change `setenv` and other environment variables to `export`, for example `export GTK_IM_MODULE=fcitx`. **
  
## Troubleshooting
  
If you encounter problem, please run `fcitx` troubleshooting first, but the output is only for `bash` environment variable configuration.
That means the environment variables are only applicable to `bash`, `sh` and `zsh` SHELL, but not to `csh`. The environment variables for `csh` need to be configured as described above.
  
If you are prompted with the word `bash` and cannot output diagnostic information, you need to install `bash` first: `# pkg install bash`
  
### fcitx 4.x
  
```
# fcitx-diagnose
```
  
It is normal for fcitx 5.x to not find support for `GTK 4`.
  
### fcitx 5.x
  
```
# fcitx5-diagnose
```
  
For fcitx5.x, it is normal to find `fcitx qt 4` support.
