# 3.1 Status of the FreeBSD mirror

## Current Status

The main problem is that officials do not open rsync and do not accept official secondary mirror applications from mirror sites anyway (probably because of lack of money or to prevent tampering with the mirror files).

There is no secondary contact for many times, such as the mailing list, about five times, of which three responses, two no response. The main reply is "apologies, but there is a mirror in Taiwan". There was no direct explanation of how to mirror, and in particular, the Linux Users Association of the University of Science and Technology of China (among other mirror sites, such as the TUNA Association of Tsinghua University) requested a mirror, but the other side mentioned that FreeBSD was also unavailable. There are currently no official FreeBSD mirrors in mainland China.

If any of you are able to contact FreeBSD officials, we hope that the mirrors will be opened soon, as non-official mirrors will not solve the problem. In addition, the Kernel or Base system source code SVN speed is even more impressive, unless the system is installed when the source code is installed, ...... domestic network environment, to enhance the speed of the proxy is also a basic function, but we can not require everyone to be the same, to provide convenient network services to facilitate more people The core of the development of FreeBSD is to facilitate the use of more people.

Please note, friends, that mirror sites are infrastructure, just like the saying, "If you want to be rich, build a road first." If the road to FreeBSD is not open, it will be a thorny path.

Here is a call to action for those who can contact the official FreeBSD community to first solve this basic problem.

The following unofficial issue mirrors are currently open for application.

USTC:

https://github.com/ustclug/mirrorrequest/issues/172

https://github.com/ustclug/mirrorrequest/issues/171

Unofficial issue mirror requests that are currently closed.

TUNA.

https://github.com/tuna/issues/issues/16

## Officially given the basic requirements for mirror sites

- root access to the server, which is not given by domestic university open source mirrors.

- IPv6 and CN2 networks - also lacking in China.

- BGP network.

- Enough storage space (about 50TB) and 1G bandwidth.

- 5 of the above computers.

- Filing issues - a special company/social organization is required to file with cn.FreeBSD.org.

- And the biggest problem, the lack of money. 　

## Unofficial mirror sites

FreeBSD does not have an official mirror site within mainland China; there is an official mirror site in Taiwan,China.

FreeBSD currently has several unofficial mirror sites on the mainland (see Section 2 for details.) : USTC

 - USTC (pkg ports only)

    https://mirrors.ustc.edu.cn

 - http://freebsd.cn (four types of sources)

 - Beijing Jiaotong University free and open source mirror site (four types of sources)

    https://mirror.bjtu.edu.cn

    Contact:

    https://t.me/bjtumirror

 - NetEase 163 mirror site (ports pkg only)

 - Nanjing University open source mirror station

    No effective contact could be made and the person in charge could not be found.

Official FreeBSD contact information.

[freebsd-hubs@freebsd.org](mailto:freebsd-hubs@freebsd.org)
