# 19.1 My Story with FreeBSD

## One of my stories with FreeBSD

I remember those boring days when some users in the group claimed that Linux could only play WPS, I questioned that and searched through Baidu, a search engine, to find Ubuntu Kylin, the UbuntKylin kylin project led by the National University of Defense Technology in Hunan, in collaboration with the Ubuntu community.

Speaking of Kylin, it is an auspicious, as Chinese as the dragon, but I regret that it has been reduced to a plaything of capital. At that time, I followed the burning method of its forum, downloaded the floppy disk with Baidu, and let my family buy a 4G, USB 2.0 Kingston disk. It burned very slowly.

I used a Lenovo G400 laptop with i3-3110M, 4G RAM, 500G mechanical hard drive, and a graphics card that was more of a bright card HD 4000 + AMD 8570M. I got to the installation screen quickly, and unfortunately my wireless card was a Broadcom BCM43142, which is not open source. But luckily Ubuntu has many proprietary drivers built in, so I was able to get rid of the cheap cable that was wound into a ball of wool. Previously I had only had experience with ghost installations of Windows, and hadn't touched any other operating systems.

When I entered Ubuntu Kylin, I wasn't surprised, I just felt a little anti-human, the window parts were on the left instead of the right, Unity was very resource intensive, I was lagging a lot with this configuration, I started to install other software and I proved one thing, there is more to Linux than WPS, after that I felt the need to dig deeper. This is my desire for freedom, any machine that can hack I am willing to study one or two, Android Root, Kindle brush Android, Apple jailbreak, learning machine crack An software. I feel like this might be a desire for control, but it's not. I'm not a root team, maybe it's the chrome and Ubuntu desktops that are holding me down.

I'm not bothered by why games don't run on Linux, because I don't prefer any games. Maybe this configuration doesn't run any games worth playing at all.

I've been studying all aspects of Linux, but lack of research on the server side, I only have theory and lack of practice, and have suffered a lot since. I saw Bird's Linux server chapter these days and realized that what I had learned the hard way over the years was all there was. I had to sigh, listen to people to eat. Because I only learned the first basic book, I do not believe that only this book can read, went to the largest local wholesale book market, to find "The C language Program" and its answers, but unfortunately, there is not. After all these years, I had taken the NCRE five times, and failed all of them. Ubuntu Kylin was very unstable, so I started installing the original Ubuntu, and then I realized I was wrong about kylin, which Ubuntu was. I have since installed and used almost all distributions for a while.

I'm so sick of the arrogant and cocky mouths of some people in the community that I rarely speak up. One question I still don't understand is why use the inferior CentOS instead of Scientific Linux, both of which are refactored distributions of RHEL code. The latter is far superior to CentOS, and even interchangeable sources with RHEL are not a problem, not to mention the level of developers, who are more often research institutes or universities. Is this what you call blind herding? People hold a purpose to learn Linux, always want to learn what kernel source code analysis, composition principles and other more theoretical things, or for the examination of the Red Hat certification. As you can see, every time a university starts a new semester, the posting community will be flooded with new people asking all kinds of interesting questions. And some of the so-called bigwigs will just keep banning.

I use the Broadcom network card let me suffer a lot of non-existent trouble, so now I have to shout a "stupid Broadcom" everywhere, each compile and install is very troublesome, there are a lot of code to change, check the various manuals. On the contrary, Intel is very convenient, direct drive-free. Later I found out that the Lenovo G400, or laptop computers have a thing called whitelist, I do not want to take the risk of brushing the BIOS, by switching to another network card with others, the same model of this computer has to use the Intel network card.

So now I see that the Raspberry Pi also uses the Broadcom I am angry, not open source to open source products into what hand, adding trouble. "Stupid Broadcom" x3.

## My story with FreeBSD #2

The ugly faces of those people made me laugh, and I stayed further and further away from the so-called communities and forums. The TV show "Martial Arts" says it well: where there are people, there are rivers and lakes, and rivers and lakes never go far and never change. The conflict in the community is rarely a technical level, according to the old saying that wise people rarely express their opinions, only silent spectators, and for the so-called technical group is more of this group of wise people in the huddle. There are technical people will be in the group? A group of friends said well, not afraid and you talk about technology, afraid that you simply do not have the technology also said to talk about technology people - less bullshit.

Technology to be transformed into productivity to reflect its value of the phrase is a thorough expression of the pragmatic characteristics of these people. Some people and I say sink your teeth into a system and learn a programming language instead of installing a system every day. I strongly disagree with this idea, and this is the root of their silent adherence to stereotypes. Is the system anything productive? I have not changed my attitude from the past, no, it's not. It's just a philosophy of suffering, tormenting myself, letting go of what works well, setting a circle for myself with the so-called freedom and openness, just like a two-dimensional world of paper people, never to jump out again.

For me personally, I only need the system to meet two points, stability and newness. Most operating systems don't meet this requirement. A single stable one brushes off Ubuntu and its derivatives except Mint linux, and for new ones, Archlinux crashes in three days in my case. I think this is a natural selection process, anyone who really likes these things will go from Ubuntu to RHEL and beyond, and finally stay with Gentoo.

I saw that the Linux Foundation course at Lab Building referred to "FreeBSD" as a distribution of Linux, and I contacted them, and they said they would seriously criticize the teacher who made the course, and that they were also fans of FreeBSD, which is no longer a mistake, but a matter of common sense. This was a matter of common sense, so I doubted the quality of the course and never used the lab building again.

When it comes to programming, I only know C and JAVA, and by that I mean I can write "Hello, world! code. I am very sick of VC++ 6.0. Maybe it is not Microsoft's fault, it is the education system that is wrong, but more the people, and all kinds of a++ + + + + a ridiculous topics that mislead people. I simply choose to give up if I can't get the truth. There is nothing wrong with the classic marble series from the Mechanical Industries Press, it just doesn't make much sense. In practice, no one will use compilation principles and introduction to algorithms these things. All the bottom-level programmers have to do is carry rather than create or research. It's hard to recognize that.

When I first tried to create a student club, I simply couldn't do it. For one thing, there was no one, and for another, there was no money. How can a school that can't even access the Internet meet the conditions for a club to exist? And what can't be done naturally has no meaning to say what the southeast and northwest. Many attempts are failures, which is a very normal thing, can only mean that the development of this thing is not yet at this stage, or choose the environment does not meet, and my failure clearly belongs to this. One mind and one virtue, I think it is difficult. Maybe it's not even possible, I don't have any support.

Life is full of complicated and difficult things, I know this very well, so I did not make any excuses at all, it is useless, as for chicken soup literature what to find ways for success nonsense is also not credible. Before this, I just want to find people who can talk, just like the idea expressed in Liu Zhenyun's book "A sentence top 10,000 sentences", people are very lucky to have a person to talk to in this life. I am more like the old missionary in it, passing my torch in an ordinary institution. But unfortunately, there is no one who can "talk the talk".

As I've said before, it depends on who you're targeting, if you're a foreigner or a programmer, why bother translating the Handbook when you don't even understand it? But obviously I don't think so, and that's why today we have the decline of FreeBSD, where some people have started working on the kernel and others can't install the system, even though FreeBSD is all just a click away. And I don't care about the kernel people, not the developers, I care more about the people who can't do anything.

I wasn't able to install FreeBSD the first, second, or third time, because I was using a Lenovo G400, and I couldn't install it at all under UEFI, it would splash, but it had nothing to do with the video memory, and so far I just hung up a bug report that no one replied to. So I lost my earliest exposure to FreeBSD and fell into the abyss of Linux.

## My Story with FreeBSD #3

The Lenovo G400 was a laptop I bought offline from Gomez. I didn't know anything about it, so I bought it casually, and not casually either. Anyone who is not a particularly crooked businessman knows that basically goods are in line with the basic law of economics that value determines price. So no money lost the freedom of choice. By now, I still do not have this freedom, even if the whole world, there are not many people with freedom. That's why I'm still suffering from 4G memory. I think a lot and do a lot; but the more I fail, the more I think, and the more I do, the more precious it becomes.

The CMOS of Lenovo G400 is faulty, on some version of Kali, loading UEFI boot will cause the motherboard to be destroyed. The BIOS update for Lenovo is only available on the official US website, while Taiwan and Hong Kong are also redirected to download. It seems to have solved the problem, but it took me almost a few months.

Lenovo pre-installed Linpus Linux on the computer, and my G400 was ghosted by the Gomez people at first. I wanted to restore it while I had the chance, because I read that the software was guaranteed for one year. Much later, Lenovo called me and said the computer was fixed, but they couldn't restore Linux, they didn't know what it was. I emailed Linpus, but there was always no response. I didn't think about it again until six months later, so I sent another email. This time, someone who seemed to be customer service answered some of my questions, such as the stability of the system (based on fedora, which made me doubt it), how to remove the help icons on the desktop, etc. But still no answer on how to restore Linux. But there was still no answer on how to restore the preconfigured system. It wasn't until a year later that I dug out these emails from my QQ email inbox and contacted them again, and according to Peachtree, "then there was no one to ask".

Later I learned from some so-called big brother's only words to learn what the United States Empire Lenovo, at present I have completely blacked out Lenovo. but in general, or poverty harmed me. 4G memory can not even open PS, let alone what.

Many people think I am lucky, at least there are computers, but more misunderstanding and ridiculous. I think of a joke, a company recruitment, in the employee benefits that marked "provide iMac for all Apple development engineers", I want to laugh, development of Apple does not use Apple's equipment with what, Windows? It is difficult not to be black Apple? It is obvious that this kind of company is a pit. If you don't need a computer to learn about computers, the person who thinks so probably has a pit in his brain. This analogical reasoning still works very well here.

I was thinking about a simple question, not where did all my time go, but where was my childhood? Or more deeply, where is my youth? It seems to be all sorts of papers, all sorts of mock exams, and maybe all sorts of tutorials, never so it is just not right, but our resistance is useless. Its system dictates everything, and it is difficult to move again. And the sacrifice of the so-called social screw, by the environment of the hammer into the hammer, look at who are like nails, as long as they are not the same as they have to hammer him into. And what about the people who really enjoy themselves? I'm afraid I'm really a sacrificed person.

I have never felt alone, although I have always walked alone, and the great spirit is what sustains me. For this reason I have a very serious mental illness and my doctor prescribed me over 500 medications, but I didn't end up taking my prescription pad to the pharmacy to pick them up. A lot of, inclusive community, is what I would like, but unfortunately, we don't get any support from anything external to me. What I felt at this point was not loneliness, nor despair, but elation. Because despair is at its peak, its peak upwards is just that.

Perhaps it was the pursuit of freedom that made me leave Linux and go to BSD. Linux brought me a lot more than a philosophy of suffering, not something like kernel technical analysis, protocol experimentation, service installation, Red Hat RHCA, and so on. People are never tools, never, not screws, otherwise they are not people. The spirit of human existence is all in the value of people, if self-identify themselves with the attributes of tools, then it is the same as those people: bored, with heavy work and social fill their schedule, refuse to think anything, but also say they are very busy, do not bother him, and ridicule the ideal of people to advise them not to think too much, more practical work, do not talk. People are not tools. The tool property of the operating system is inherent, so is OS a tool?

To discuss what bullshit technology? Those mechanical industry publishers are full of black bricks. What is technology? Show off or what? I don't know much about it. As for learning? I'm afraid it's not the right time yet. I expect to have to finish translating the manuals before I can. Those again no one reads and are not relevant, I don't want to use everyone as a tool, as a duck to instill knowledge, never pray for others to be like you, that's not humanitarian and not realistic.

## My Story with FreeBSD #4

FreeBSD is 28 years old (2021). But graphically it still sucks, as it does in the open source world. In software engineering parlance it is a lack of user requirements analysis. As some people say, you just write code every day, never mind what's useful. With this kind of thinking, more junkware and unfriendly software has been made, some of it building wheels. The upper layer theory has become almost independent of the bottom layer, and if you can see assembly in C's pointers and arrays, it's not there today. So I don't think kernel analysis would help us much with FreeBSD, if I weren't a developer. After all, it's a market economy now, and any measure of value is price. Again, people are seen as tools, and if your boss retains you, it is largely because you are the lowest cost of all his available options.

Some people are populist now, and I have always said that the People's Post and Telecommunications Publishing House has delayed the development of the computer business on the mainland. It is well known that there is only one book to get started with Linux - Bird's Linux Private Practice. This book should have come out four years ago, and has been pushed until now. But I am very sorry to get the new edition of the book, the fourth edition. The cover of the book says "based on Linux 7.x", I can't help but doubt its quality, Linux version number has not yet reached 6, this is 7? The translator said he had returned the book to the factory for reprinting, and did not see any apology for saying that it could be collected as a misprinted RMB. And some people say it's Bird's political stance that is problematic but can't come up with any evidence, and that's what people are saying.

There is a problem with self-learning, that one thinks one will, but in fact one will not. Or it doesn't match the so-called mainstream education assessment methods. Many people apply the natural sciences to the social sciences, analogical reasoning, and this is one of the things I hate most. A lot of populism is like that. A lot of people put too much emphasis on individual agency and don't care at all about the hostile environment, which is also a populist manifestation of the idea that more people means the truth. Anyone who thinks otherwise is labeled as such. It is thought that it is the individual who does not work hard, which is completely capitalist in sarcasm a beggar so hungry why not eat meat.

I do not know where the problem, I do not consider whether there is no help, it is not numb, but helpless. There is no criticism whatsoever.

Back to the network to help each other, I do not know how to treat, I am now more onlookers, to be a "wise man" (see story three). I've been hurt a lot by the fact that I used to help people install operating systems and do some troubleshooting on the Internet for free. But I actually got nothing out of it, and no one thought that these simple things meant anything to academic research. I was just a waste of time, and the wise guys, once I was useless, ignored me. It was as if I was a tool. This happened too much, not just to a few people, so I reassured myself that I knew Cong Fei's story and could face his thoughts head on. The purpose was not to get anything in the first place, but why would you ignore it? As I've said before, that's often the case with free stuff. A thing must be paid for in order to show its value, even if it only costs a penny, so I understand why some goods are tried for a fee. These are not found in domestic economics textbooks. In a nutshell, the value of FreeBSD is due to the lack of people like Linux AGVDbNVutgwiep6615bjTJnQkScwWuUEMuU95NredRG5

Too many "wise men" and the organization died out. And the reason is even simpler - "they are very busy, at work, no time". It seems that he is even busier than President Trump. I've seen many of these people in the Linux group, everyone says he is a big brother, but in fact, for the group in addition to a loud name, there is nothing else useful to the group, the external also does not play any publicity and other indirect use. People simply know that the group who is a big brother, and then what? Expect them to answer questions and solve problems? I think most of them will be "very busy". Yes, the big guys are so busy, how can they solve their own simple problems? More like mockery. So my inference is that the big guys are useless and the little guys are useless, which is a terrible result. The end result is probably more like a university club, which understands, but not particularly.

I've been in four "hobbyist" related organizations. Two online, two real. So now I'm completely disillusioned. The leader of the team told me to start a forum, so I went to contribute. In the end, it's the people who are the problem, a group of people who play every day, how do you expect to contribute to the team, since they are not willing to sacrifice some, the team is better to disband. The system is regulated, there are philosophical theories to guide, funding to meet the market demand, that is obviously a problem with the people. The Chinese education system makes it impossible for me to find a person who meets my needs, yes, there is none in the whole of China. It is clear that if you want a nation to die out, education is the best way to do it. I couldn't find anyone who had a dream for the team, not eSports.

The more people in the group, the closer to the social average. Zhihu, Douban, and B station are pulling down their own user atmosphere and core values. This is for traffic cash. This is the sadness of the times, not just my personal sadness. My sadness can not make people feel anything, the next second readers click on the side of the screen x, and then go to do what will naturally forget all this. And what you forget is the pain of someone else's half-life of depression. And one day, you will be forgotten too. But that's okay.

So when I learned that the "Qintai" is in Wuhan, I went there. I went there in the hope of seeing a soulmate like a mountain and flowing water, but it was hard to find one, and all I saw was the "First Guqin Rating", another money-grubbing thing. It's an insult to the place. It is better to let Tao Yuanming's Peach Blossom Source live forever in academic papers and textbooks. I know, I have no best friend.

In fact, relying on people rather than other things, the president of National Tsing Hua University Mei Yiqi said, "The university is not the building of the big, is the master of the big." This conflicts with what I just said, quoting famous people does not add a point of credibility to the proof scientifically, I just used it as my citation. I would say it's not that the group doesn't need big guys, but it needs real big guys, not wise ones. Otherwise it is useless even if you gather more people, indoctrination that is a matter for the Ministry of Education and I am not in the business. According to management theory, there are informal organizations in the organization, which is the proverbial "circle". This is also a class division method. I do not agree with it. But its existence cannot be denied. For people who can't even eat, how can they study anything FreeBSD, Steve Jobs and Dennis Ritchie died almost the same week, but all I saw at that time was Steve Jobs, and someone wrote a very expensive biography of Steve Jobs. It's okay that the great master's death is not commemorated, it's a different circle. I just think there should be a Ritchie biography too, that's what he deserves, we owe him a biography. If you don't know who he was even now, click on the "X" in the corner of the screen.

Many people say that there are no viruses under Linux, and that they are infected by dual-system Windows. But that's not true, it's just not enough interest. When you find out that the system is not working properly, it has become a virus incubator. I foresee today that the future of the Linux platform will never be much less Trojan than Windows, or even macOS for that matter. There is no absolutely safe operating system, OpenBSD has been exposed to backdoors, people are unreliable, and it is a ridiculous idea to try to replace machines with humans to improve computer security. Lack of awareness of network security is also a theoretical argument for the existence of big data analysis in domestic lack of virtuous enterprises. All kinds of data collected at your leisure, anyway, the user does not care. A poison even said that users are willing to sacrifice personal privacy for the sake of convenience. Worthy of the "poison". It is distressing.

## My Story with FreeBSD #5

Much later, I posted a question in FreeBSD about the G400 splash screen, and three or four other people gave some replies at that time. But to no avail, and neither did the official FreeBSD forums.

I think it was 10.3 at that time, as I recall. 10.3 had not yet been released. It was in beta. I thought it was a driver problem, and the only thing that worked at that time was a hundred viruses, so I couldn't get any useful information and it was a complete waste of time.

I'm sure it's not a big deal, but once some SB makes a change, it all changes. For example, in the my.ini file of MySQL database 5.7 on Windows, the data directory is specified by yourself, and there is no data directory in the installation path itself. Some brain-dead tutorials will tell you to manually create a new one, but this will instead prompt you that data exists and cannot be initialized. This is interesting, A says to leave the data directory alone, B says to create a new one. If someone believes B's bullshit and doesn't read the error output, then I'm afraid he's going to waste more time. Of course, that aside, installing such things on Windows is itself a waste of time. In my experience with Linux over the years, there have been a few SB tutorials like this. I think I could even write an article tomorrow on how to recognize the credibility of articles.

There are relatively few tutorials here in FreeBSD, most of them are not much of a pitfall, or maybe it's due to the base problem, there are too few users. Most of the ones searched through the hundred drugs are about system installation and still use decade-old commands like pkg_add. Further in depth is what fnmp (freebsd, nginx, MySQL, php) such things are configured.

There are not many cloud server providers that provide FreeBSD images from a worldwide perspective, Aliyun's FreeBSD was 10.1 at that time, and pkg was not working at all, saying it was a bug and had to be upgraded to 10.3, then I searched according to a hundred poisons and watched all kinds of junk tutorials, and finally got up there. But I was prompted that there was a .so file in pkg that could not be found. I couldn't find any information by searching through the hundred virus. I had to reinstall the system and do nothing but run the freebsd-update command directly, which worked. Now I think I know what pkg-static command can adjust soft links. I haven't tried it either. I feel sad that using pkg-static is a waste of my life. And the rest have no choice at all. It's like chronic suicide.

With FreeBSD not working properly with the G400, I started installing a virtual machine. The installation interface is similar to Debian, in that old blue background style, and FreeBSD is extremely easy to install, with no problem getting to the next step. This can't even be done with XP, which can't write to a flash drive, and if you use floppy disk, I don't know how to write him in purely now, but there's no need to study it, I never use XP or win7.

I don't know how to write him in pure, but there is no need to study it, I never use XP and win7. The speed is very slow (if someone can contact the official FreeBSD, please tell the University of Science and Technology can provide mirrors, see the history of the push "mirror station"), never more than 20kib / s, and can not hang to let him download, will timeout of ...... I can only watch and let him finish downloading more than 500 packages. Here I found a thing, no matter what device, what operating system, what software, as long as you keep an eye on him he will download fast, will not break, you leave not look at him he will be slow, will be disconnected. It is reasonable to say that this is not subject to human will, but now a bit like Schrodinger's cat. I wonder if anyone has this experience? I think it has nothing to do with the background foreground services, I also control variables over.

To be honest I don't see any difference between Linux and FreeBSD. If you install a bash, the shell scripts are mostly common.

What puzzles me is that there is no free command, nor is there an ls pci command. It is logical that such commands are either built into bash, or are abbreviated variables, or are provided by some package.
ls pci is part of the pciutils package, so isn't it easier to use this to see device information than dmesg? Isn't this a philosophy of self-torture? I am extremely against it. A similar package is usbutils (ls usb command).

The free command is even more puzzling to me, because I personally could not find out what kind of command it belongs to, and then I was told by a poster that it belongs to a package: procps (https://gitlab.com/procps-ng/procps), which is licensed under GPL v2. The free command reads procfs information, but FreeBSD The free command reads procfs information, but FreeBSD has long since deprecated this pseudo-file system, so I assume that the inability to use free is the reason. I'll be looking at this issue later. Because FreeBSD's native vmstat is too hard to use. Far less intuitive than free.

Strongly opposed to the philosophy of suffering.

## My Story with FreeBSD #6 - My Years in the Open Source Community

The six elements of fiction: time, place, characters. The cause, the aftermath, and the effect. The "character" is the heart of the novel. Without characters, everything is empty, and animals in animal fiction are considered characters. Speaking of me and FreeBSD, I have to talk about all the things I've seen in the open source community over the past seven or eight years. The open source community is a general concept, not just a community, forum, association, posting bar, or a variety of QQ groups, TG groups, microblogging groups ....... The list is endless.

As I said before, small circles have a small circle of good, but the bad side is also very obvious, outsiders almost do not fit in, the lack of inclusiveness and openness. Among them, I feel that the most difficult to integrate is some USTC association, Gentoo group as the representative of the TG group.

The USTC association put the link to join the group on the TXT record of a domain name, which is not hard to find, just find a web page and check it out. Their group name is combined with the 24 solar terms, like "USTC Valley Rain". This reminded me of Chinese medicine at the time. It felt like they were selling Power Pills. The first thing I did was to ask "Is anyone using FreeBSD?" and a few "masters" came out and said, "Just say what's up". He said, "He's rude, don't reply to him", "Ignore these questions", as if I was cursing, and I was cursing simply by asking if anyone was using FreeBSD, so I had to send a "You're an idiot" is not a compliment? I'm going to post a ...... "you're an idiot" now X3! This group is really interesting, I'm asking him how I'm being rude, can't I just ask if anyone is using FreeBSD? Someone else threw out the art of asking me questions. I withdrew from the group, and recently I asked the group again "Does anyone use FreeBSD?", but no one replied. If this kind of group doesn't "die", then there is no reason.

Gentoo's TG group is even more interesting, their administrators call each other "big brother" and "giant brother", each talking about his own, as if isolated from the rest of the world in the "Huashan Jian". It's quite a feeling of a hero in his twilight! This circle is not a matter of whether you want to blend in or not, it is you they will not care about you, who are you? Are you an overseas student? No, then you should not speak. Yes, I have been afraid to speak in that group.

I was told that the circles are different, don't melt hard. The only purpose of the group is to rip. I added a Linux group to ask how to configure the SSL certificate after a hundred poisonous cases. An administrator came up and asked me "Do you know what is SSL protocol and do you know how the underlying encryption principle of HTTPS is implemented?" I was so scared that I rushed out of the group, but it turned out that I had to learn the principles of cryptography to configure SSL for Nginx. I thought I wouldn't know what he was talking about, but it didn't affect my configuration of SSL certificates in any way. You think he knows a lot, in fact, he does not know. There are also several groups called what "water cube" to ......

It is said that no one wants to engage in technology after 30 ...... I seem to have added a middle-aged technical group? It's a WeChat group about open source homebrew kernels. Yes, middle-aged and old people only use WeChat, that's my bias. In my opinion WeChat's anti-human design is not much less than Unity, Ubuntu's default desktop. I'm talking about middle-aged people, do you think they will discuss with you in the group about stupid issues like synchronization and asynchrony? They are concerned about the world! Day after day in the group of rumors is also a common thing. This circle is not whether you can blend in, but you simply do not want to blend in. Every day, the East family, the West family short. It's a sad state of affairs!

There are not too many groups about FreeBSD, you can search on QQ and see that there are only three or four that you want to add to. But if you go in the wrong direction and don't turn back, do you expect the earth to circle back? Some of the things I've learned about the FreeBSD group are described below.

## My Story with FreeBSD #7 - My Years with the Chairman

I met the chairman of the committee in the FreeBSD QQ group: the sky was still a bit hazy and there were not too many sunny days. In the words of the poet Du Fu, "When the flowers fall, I meet you again".

The chairman of the committee was studying at the University of Waterloo in Canada, and the Co-operative project of the University of Waterloo made the chairman of the committee a real person. At that time, I didn't envy him much, but now I don't envy him any more.

The committee chair is a doc committer, responsible for the revision and translation of documents. So the chairman of the committee in the QQ group recruiting troops to translate the Handbook manual is a matter of course. But often contrary to expectations, the chairman of the committee to engage in a set of translators more complex translation process, in general terms is to first create a project in Github, and then through the Issue to claim their own translation part, and finally through the pull application to merge the translated po translation text. For an experienced programmer this is not difficult, but for the average person synchronization to the local are a little hard, because Github directly under the 404, some areas and even http://github.com can not open, the reason we all know.

So my friend Mao Dogzi said he would not git, directly download po documents, after translation and then send QQ to the chairman of the committee can not? The chairman immediately said yes, so the hairy dog began his road to translation ......

Similarly, I also began my translation of the road, I translated what seems to be Xorg chapter. But the editor became a problem, so I ended up translating rather hard, and because I forgot to save it by changing the system to the computer, I lost my translated document. I wanted to continue the translation, but the commissioner's Github Issue marked me as Abandon, so I didn't continue ......

Hairy Dogzi also sent his translation to the chairman of the committee by QQ.

After a long time ...... about half a year, I thought they had translated the FreeBSD Handbook, but the chairman of the committee abandoned the whole project Abandon. Hairy Dogzi sent a QQ asking the chairman of the committee, who said there was no pull on github for Hairy Dogzi. Yes, the chairman of the committee and I both lost po files, the difference being that I lost mine and the chairman of the committee lost Hairy Dogzi's.

Years later I wanted to restart the translation of the FreeBSD Handbook manual, but it had to start with an editor ......

Po has only one editor for Windows, called Poedit, and the author is called Vslavik, and if I hadn't learned to swear in English, I would have educated him on what it means to be a human being. I crowdfunded in the group to buy a premium membership, originally intended to pay with Visa credit card, a look at Alipay ...... long time speechless ...... I withdrew the cash half a day not to say, but also by WeChat deducted a huge amount of fees.

I use Poedit pre-translation, that is, machine translation, he will not save the results of machine translation, so every time you open the need to pre-translation, and over time I suddenly can not pre-translation, I went to Vslavik, he said I have pre-translated tens of millions of words, with his software earned a lot of money and so on, I said this is your software is a bug, not my business, I am for open source software documentation translation I said it's your software that's buggy, not mine, I'm translating open source software documentation, I don't make any money. But Vslavik non-say I violated the user agreement, do not give me the solution, which I have to curse, English cursing will not, and then also that did not say anything. Instead of blaming Vslavik, the chairman of the committee came to bemoan me, which made me very ashamed.

Then I found that my translations could not make compile, po this document on the format requirements are too strict, one by one is impossible to change only rm -rf.

In 2020, I heard that the FreeBSD Handbook had a new online translation site at https://translate-dev.freebsd.org/. I submitted a request, and someone said welcome in Chinese. I opened the backend and saw that the translation was at 99%, goodness, who translated it? I don't know, it's 99%. What else do I need to do? I sent an email to the person who welcomed me, and now half a year has passed and I haven't received any reply. Am I too realistic. But now Handbook is still the same ......

I have not seen the commissioner for a long time, once again borrowed a few lines of poetry from Mr. Du Fu ...... when a wine, heavy with fine papers.
