# 19.2 FreeBSD and Cats - Choosing the 1% for Life

Many people think that FreeBSD is just an operating system, and extremely bad as a desktop. There is no denying the fact that FreeBSD is, and FreeBSD's little demon is its icon, representing the daemon and its fork.

To be honest, it's a bit ugly to my aesthetic. That's why we don't use it for any of our promotional icons, and use a more aesthetically pleasing alternative image.

Yesterday someone asked me what is the use of the public, can earn money, since it can not be widely promoted, and can not earn money, then what is the use? This is actually a difference in values caused by the different levels of needs of each person, we do not have to pay attention to. The previous article paragraph "pragmatic and retreat" I have said very clear, not to repeat. What a headache. The old adage, "Different wills are not friends, different paths are not ways," has been a source of deeper reflection over and over again.

What is FreeBSD? We all know that the iPhone uses iOS, the MacBook Pro uses macOS, our phones are Android, our computers are Windows xp/7/8/8.1/10, and probably computer science students have come across Linux. This is probably the only way more people will know what FreeBSD is. But FreeBSD is rarely installed directly on our phones, but more often on embedded devices, like routers, or servers.

And we know that the hardware needs to be supported by drivers in order to work, and that drivers are the bridge between software and hardware. For example, if you play games, you have to install drivers and update them according to the graphics card. Due to copyright and vendor support issues, FreeBSD only supports a very small number of hardware devices, or the performance of the support is very poor.

It's a dead-end cycle, similar to the current so-called domestic operating systems, lacking an ecosystem: users don't use it --> no need to develop it --> no support, how can users use it? --> use something else --> users don't use it

In fact, here we can see a company's corporate ethics and business foresight, most domestic companies are narrow-minded, lack of ethics, it is sad. A certain penguin once supported Linux for a few months, and then the building was empty, leaving a beta version empty. A bitch does not say that they update the progress, but rather that it is the users themselves why they have chosen to live in the 1%? On the contrary, most of the software of foreign companies support all platforms, and there is no system discrimination.

The choice is free and beyond reproach. In retrospect, many people questioned why they should use FreeBSD, the old cliché, love it or not.

So what does it have to do with cats?

I don't know whose cat it is, but it looks like no one is feeding it, so I just gave it some buns. After that, I was afraid it would run away and kept it in a cage. But it never had the idea of slipping out when it was full.

When it was released, it had changed from a black cat to a flowered cat, mostly yellow and white, with a black forehead. We never give animals any names because we don't really understand what the point is.

This cat is probably one of the best cats I've ever seen because it's all I remember now, even the dog and rabbit or whatever I can't remember. I just remember waking up in the middle of the night one day and going out and seeing a hedgehog, so I just took a plastic bucket and snapped it on the land, thinking about it the next day. The next day I remembered that I should have put a few red bricks on the bucket. Since then I've been thinking, why didn't I put a brick on it? God willing, another hedgehog attempted to cross the aisle, I grabbed the balled up hedgehog, put it on the steel plate, buckled the bucket again, and added three or two bricks. This time it didn't run after all, hedgehogs have the cutest noses ever. However this species doesn't seem to like fostering, and it was released.

Cats are fond of sleeping, and he slept for a long time. Sometimes it's better to be a cat.

It is probably several years old. The only difference between it and a dog is its ability to escape the confines of the yard on it. He sits on the coal stove with his fur nearly on fire; he lies in front of the electric heater with his beard burnt. Probably its nose was not discolored by my pinching.

The cat does not usually bite, it only scratches with its claws. This is true of semi-domesticated animals. It rarely meowed and often put dead mice under the bed. I realized that this cat eats mice. I have always wanted to raise the cat a little fatter and better to hold, at least as much as a rabbit, but it loves the sun and loves to fly.

When it sees me, instead of licking me like a dog, it just opens its eyes, then closes them and continues to sleep peacefully.

This street are almost demolished, leaving half of the ruins and half of the stalls selling snacks. It's going to be demolished here too. This is a rented house, and I just remember to keep it inside. And I can't find it during the day. Have not seen the cat since then, and never had a cat.
