# 19.3 Linux and the Philosophy of Suffering

Among many rabid FreeBSD fans, they don't even allow people to write FreeBSD as freebsd, to emphasize with you that F and BSD are both capitalized. And say it's some kind of respect or something. There are four ways to write fennel for fennel beans in the same way that there are four ways to write fennel for fennel beans in the same way that there are four ways to write fennel for fennel beans in the same way that there are four ways to spell FreeBSD, you know? You know, "You can't write it? ...... I'll teach you, remember! 'FreeBSD', 'freeBSD', 'Freebsd', 'freebsd ' These words should be memorized. When you are a FreeBSD administrator in the future, you should use them when writing documentation."

I think it's a disease, to regulate others with your own requirements, at least the same as Confucius.

As soon as Fanatic Powder arrived at the store, all the people drinking looked at him and laughed, and some called out, "Fanatic Powder, you've got a new scar on your face!" He didn't answer, but said to the counter, "Warm two bowls of wine and ask for a plate of fennel beans." Then he discharged nine large pieces of money. They shouted again in a deliberately loud voice, "You must have lower-cased the word FreeBSD again!" The fanatic fan's eyes widened and said, "How can you smear someone's innocence ...... out of thin air like that?" "What innocence? I saw you spell out freebsd in lowercase in the group the day before yesterday, and you were hung up for ten minutes by the group owner and administrator." The fanatical fan then rose red face, forehead of the green tendons streak out, argued, "lowercase can not be considered wrong ...... special expressions! ...... reading people, can be counted wrong?" The next is difficult to understand words, what "people are not sage, who can not be wrong", what "special grammar" and so on, led to the crowd are laughing: the store inside and outside the air filled with happy.

After discussing these ridiculous case issues, let's talk about the philosophy of suffering that we used to talk about.

The company's main goal is to provide a solution to the problem of the problem. The first thing you need to do is to get a good idea of what you want to do. It's not freedom, it's bondage. This is the embodiment of the philosophy of misery through and through. The specific performance is to torture themselves, repeatedly build the wheel, do not respect reality. Those who say don't care what it is, first write a project, are such people, causing even greater sorrow. Is not respect the performance of software engineering, completely ignoring the user and market demand. Write something how others use, how to see? Bragging about what command line is better than graphical, what development cycle, adding a few boxes can affect the development cycle? It's all influenced by the philosophy of suffering, as if it's a great thing to go through some extra steps to achieve Windows-like functionality on UNIX. It's an interesting philosophy of suffering to have someone tell me that ibus is good when they can't even tell fcitx from rime.

How do you define the philosophy of suffering?

Building the wheel (meaninglessly repeating the work of others) and ignoring existing software development principles.

The idea that you can do it with A, but you have to bind yourself to do it with B by using some kind of arcane bullshit principle about meaningful values.

despise all software that uses the mouse and memorize vim keyboard diagrams.

So in retrospect, are users with WP phones also victims of the philosophy of suffering? Are users of Linux desktops and FreeBSD desktops also practitioners of the philosophy of suffering?

In a sense, yes, they are. Some people have to learn C under Linux, saying that it's better to understand how the IDE works, that preprocessing compiled assembly links is not intuitive under the IDE, and that they have to tinker with GCC. What is the use for beginners? Those are required for a compilation principles course, not C. As a programming language course, you can never extend its course content infinitely, and the purpose is different, what pointer such things in high-level language is almost invisible, boasting what better understanding of pointer and array implementation principles is the performance of the philosophy of suffering, is tantamount to dragon slaying. I still say that the compilation principle and introduction to algorithms is useless, most companies can not use, to have a position on their own, is moving the brick does not need to learn quantum mechanics. Unless only for hobby or academic purposes.

User needs determine the direction of software development, and the lack of commercial support for open source products often ignore it. It is also a philosophy of suffering to bind users with the GPL protocol. According to this view, using Windows is not a philosophy of suffering? Why else would you have to use AGVDbNVutgwiep6615bjTJnQkScwWuUEMuU95NredRG5 when you can do it quickly with Linux?

I respect users who value it as a family friend rather than a tool, but please do realize that people have social attributes and please care more about others, no matter who they are.

More than once I've seen the phrase "More technical talk, no water", sometimes a variation of "Have you written any projects?" Sometimes it's a variation of "Have you written any projects?", "Here's what you can do with it", "Try programming and finish ......". Sometimes it is even in English, a mixture of Chinese and English. I think this destroys the purity of the language.

So many computer industry or enthusiast circles have a special "water group", there is an organization with a more interesting name, called "water cube" to "water". What they consider "water" is not exactly related to computers or their subject matter, but sometimes just a random posting to show their authority.

"If you don't do it my way, we don't have a premise to communicate." That's their point. "There is a sequence of hearing and a specialization in the art", Han Yu's "Teacher's Discourse" elaborates on this, and the only difference between us and him is just time. These have absolutely nothing to do with talent or anything. It's not as complicated as building a rocket. So I don't think this rule, this rule of equal dialogue between two parties, is based on compliance with the rules that one party has first. Now there is this political term "political correctness" that has been introduced in the computer community to oppose this inherent rule.

What does technology have to do with this? What does it matter to me? Yes, as I said before, it is always assumed that these things are useless and that the best technology is the best. This is a reflection of the lack of humanism. These useless things are not useless because they are really useless, but so useful that they don't know how to use them. Thus, they are considered metaphysical. The connection is universal.

Linus says it hasn't changed, the Linux community has gotten dirty. It is said that "the strong make the rules and the weak can only follow them", but were the strongest the strongest to begin with? What is the point of being strong? I think that the strong have a greater responsibility to develop innovations. Otherwise, it is no different from social Darwinism - "the survival of the fittest". This is extremely incorrect and, moreover, disrespects the spirit of science. How can the conclusions of the natural sciences be falsified without verification, and then pressed to the social sciences? If it is all "competition", then why to build what "harmonious society", why the Nobel Peace Prize to "to promote the unity and friendship of the nation-state, the abolition or reduction of armaments, and for the organization and promotion of the peace conference Why should the Nobel Peace Prize be awarded to "the person who has made the greatest effort or contribution to the organization and promotion of the peace conference"? It's not just a direct fight, you said it yourself, who is strong who on. The computer industry is also very simple, as well as according to this routine, who has the highest technology who has the most money, who has the say, who is respected in the community. Obviously not. Does anyone remember Dennis Ritchie, who died in the same month as Steve Jobs? Everyone's choice is free, and you are perfectly free to quit organizations whose rules you do not want or have the ability to change. It's like Funtoo Linux is to the Gentoo Linux community.

I try very hard not to make my organization something like that. I give people more choices and I stick to my principles.

Back to what "water" means. We all know the truth: "The more people there are in a group or organization, the closer it is to the social average." Like Zhihu Douban and even B station have encountered the commercialization of the dilemma. The current users hardly give them much commercial value at all, while the expansion will reduce their professionalism and user atmosphere. So how do you allow people to join and not affect such things? Unless the other person is at a higher level, so what meaningful thing can they get by joining? That's why we prefer newcomers. Not a stubborn old programmer who even wants you to call him "uncle". This is obviously not a circle of people. You talk to him about life, he talks to you about age, you talk to him about technology, he talks to you about experience, you talk to him about projects, he talks to you about salary. We must have this awareness, talk about technology to have to take something, but do not have to be odd.

Some people have pulled these away, that it depends entirely on the "people". This is not true, the reason why the feudal system has lasted so long, lies in such a system or sets of systems. ① centralized power ② franchise system ③ imperial examination system ④ ideological dictatorship. This is completely dependent on people? It is the West whose rule of law has a long history. No one can talk about technology out of life. Nowadays, there are hardly any so-called "truth seekers". There are no more people like Yan Hui who forget their worries and have fun. It's still about survival, isn't it? I don't understand the difference between people who talk about blockchain, big data, artificial intelligence and the old Confucian who talked about Mencius ruling the country and Confucius educating people in ancient times. I'm afraid they are also a Confucian. The "F" and "BSD" in "FreeBSD" should be capitalized, otherwise there are four ways to write it. You should learn to strike, and use it in the future when doing operations and maintenance.

Some beginners are also very funny, also talk about "do not water", they came in originally is the "water" process. The more people, the lower the level of professional organization. I try to change this situation. Or the old saying, one heart and one mind, we do not think the same, there is no need to waste time. Someone also wrote a book for newbies called "The Art of Asking Questions", or just read fuck. admittedly I recognize that not everyone is as educated as Confucius. But I am still willing to give more help, because, at one time, everyone was.

Lastly, I would like to advise readers not to use a hundred poisons, but to make good use of Google, Duckduckgo and so on. This is also a prerequisite for you to be able to read this article, otherwise you are unlikely to clearly understand what I mean. I recognize that the reader's own reading comprehension is a re-creation of the work, but here please make sure not to.

What is the philosophy of suffering? I did not make up this term, but it actually exists, and in all my years in academia I have seen many places that are filled with the philosophy of suffering and the members that make up those places and the software they develop.

Software engineering, an industrial approach to standardize and streamline software development to make it more efficient.

The first step in software engineering is user requirements analysis, the source of most suffering is to ignore this step, always think that "write" code is the most important, and "algorithm" is the most important of its touted, so write documents, user requirements analysis and so on, and themselves do not have much to do with. Just write the code yourself, is there anyone using it? Build the wheel? That is not a problem I need to consider, ignoring science, not respecting science is an important root cause of the philosophy of suffering.

Some people think that they are doing kernel development is very powerful, but in fact, it is just the same.

It's fascinating to see people who don't even know that the Linux kernel is not completely open source (see the GNU Linux-libre project, a completely open source linux kernel), who think that the kernel is completely open source, and who say things like "if it's not open source, how did I compile it? I have seen many of these proud people at both USTC and TUNA, or rather all of them. I have no comment on this. They are people who are poisoned by the philosophy of suffering.

The quality of open source software is often poor, with all kinds of problems, even very easy to find. Take the GUI ZenmapGUI, there are at least two important bugs: one is that it is often impossible to enter any text in the input box, and it is not related to the input method keyboard (the problem is repeated on multiple computers); the second is that when switching the scan window, the log of the scan input is cleared and the log cannot be found. So I'm curious whether these people have used the software they developed themselves or not, because all those who have used it have this problem. Wouldn't this be considered an affliction? (Bugs have been reported but not responded to.) The reasons are human and financial, the developers are of different levels and have limited ability, and the second is that they have their own jobs and can't be distracted from too much.

Simple bugs like this can be found everywhere. For example, when installing Debian, if you create a normal user, you will not succeed with su or sudo su because it does not change the sudo configuration file (the line ALL=(ALL) should be added). Although it is only one line, but enough to bother newcomers, on the contrary, windows will never have this problem, blue screen reboot you are most likely to be able to boot, but kernel panic how to do it? I think the reboot is useless. Is it a technical problem? It is that it does not care about these problems.

So the question arises whether to translate the FreeBSD Handbook documentation, what is the significance of the problem, and of course the lack of manpower is the main reason for the various excuses. What will be translated is not necessary, and what will not be translated is useless, or not.

Computer philosophy does not have a completely unified theoretical system at present. Computationalism is a major mainstream, from the Pythagorean school, which believes that the number is the original of everything, the number is the harmony and unity of the beauty of things that make up the world.

Computationalism is implicit in The Matrix: how can we prove that we really exist and not a digital signal simulated by a computer?

The philosophy of suffering looks like just a way of behaving, such as installing VIM on the Windows platform and claiming that it is 10,000 times better than Notepad. But otherwise, the philosophy of suffering only manifests itself through these behaviors, and its roots require further critical thought.

Many open source will not understand what is open source but talk about open source.

"Why don't you use LaTeX to write a novel, and why do you use Word?"

"Why do you say LibreOffice is not compatible with Word, and why don't you say MS Word is not compatible with LibreOffice?"

"Free and Software Foundation's 'Free' means free, no money."

"Why don't you use GIMP and go use PS."

All of the above is the series of jokes I saw. He said himself that those things have usability?

The student said libreOffice is good, so I went to install one, not to mention the anti-human interface design, let's say he crashed 3 times in 10 minutes, even before the crash editing records are not, "this thing is also a human can use?" I could not help but sigh. He doesn't even have a small two-by-four font, only something like 12345678. This thing first line indent settings are difficult enough, are centimeters to units, and the first line indent does not adjust with the paragraph text adjustment. This certainly implements the open source philosophy of anti-humanity.

Pupils say LaTeX is good, I read half a day did not find for a text worker what is good for this thing.

Elementary school students say GIMP is better than PS is even more nonsense.

Students say Free is free is even more fallacious, Free is free, not free, that is, open source is allowed to charge, Microsoft's open source model is such. Microsoft is not in fact closed source, it is conditional open source, provided that a certain number of copies of Windows are purchased, and for good reason. There are people who say that Windows is closed source, which means that this person not only does not know Windows, but also does not know what open source is. If you don't believe me, take a look at https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/sharedsource/enterprise-source-licensing-program.aspx

Saying that he is a schoolboy is an insult to schoolchildren, which is just a cerebral palsy. This is the philosophy of suffering abbreviation idle nothing to do, in that build the wheel.

This kind of person is even more disgusting than the chicory who not only has no skills, but also hangs around there with half a bottle of water.

His example of Windows seems to be useless, but is it?

Of course not.

Take for example the NTFS file system, a file system that Linux has never been able to do in its lifetime. This file system is far more stable than the so-called what xfs ext, not to mention btrfs, that is a joke. As for zfs, this file system is even funnier, designed to only expand the file partition, can not shrink.

NTFS no matter how you accidentally power off he can boot smoothly, in contrast Ext this kind of thing is no reliability to speak of.

The most important thing that they ignore is the compatibility of Windows.

Windows 11 of the 2021 era can even run 26-year-old windows 95 programs, and even more, without recompiling the source code.

This is something that no Linux system can do, and they are not even compatible with programs that are a few days old.

Their programs depend on specific C libraries, on specific kernel versions. Even Gentoo is not an arbitrary choice. That's a joke.

And people say that Linux software doesn't need compatibility, hahahahaha, look how ridiculous these open source kids are!

Don't mention Macos, that's Apple's strategic incompatibility, and he can be compatible if he wants to be, old software has old behavior, new software has new behavior.

Xorg and his so-called replacement wayland are two mountains of shit.

Open source software is fundamentally against software engineering, because the first step is not to design for user requirements, they don't care whether the user can read LibreOffice or not, they don't care whether you can compile the program or not.

These students do not even have the above points of common sense to come out of the half-bottle wobbling, jingle bells banging.
