# 19.4 From an idea to see if FreeBSD is commercial or collegiate

I read a post on a well-known computer networking forum about how I wanted to make a mobile terminal operating system based on FreeBSD, just like Android, Apple's IOS.

It is impossible to think backwards that FreeBSD was not considered when Android was first developed, because FreeBSD is better than Linux in terms of both code quality and BSD protocols, which is the view of some people; others think that FreeBSD is made at best like Android, and that the driver problem cannot be solved in the first place; others start from the technical side, saying that xorg is hindering its Although the virtual machine has been removed, the performance will be improved, but the number of developers who will FreeBSD is very small; more people advise it to get down to earth, this does not make any money at all.

But as I understand it, FreeBSD is mainly due to the lack of large commercial companies to support its services. Because we all know that open source products are generally profitable by selling services rather than the software itself. According to the GPL agreement, the source code is available, just recompile it, just like the relationship between RHEL and CentOS, Scientific Linux. So over time it has become a vicious circle. However, there is a large part of the FreeBSD user community that believes that the BSD agreement has prevented its development, because under the two-pronged agreement, modified products can be made available without open source, for a fee. But these ideas are also incorrect; look specifically at Apple and FreeBSD, and the many commercial giants in handbook that use FreeBSD services, to see that going back to source code is more likely to save companies money and is a mutually reinforcing relationship.

 FreeBSD's support for ARM sucks, but isn't the arm instruction set for mobile terminals now? Can it still be MIPS? That said, I really hope that FreeBSD can support the Dragon Core processor. FreeBSD's embedded development is by no means a matter of neutering the kernel, adding a few phone calls and texting software, but the difficulty is close to starting from zero.

In fact, not only FreeBSD's embedded development, Linux's process is also roughly the same, Ubuntu Phone, FireFox OS, Windows Phone are all failed products that want to migrate from their PC side to embedded devices.

In fact, more people are emphasizing the risk and avoiding it. Someone spoke at the graduation ceremony of a famous university in China and said that one should believe in the existence of fairness and justice in society and the existence of true academics.
It may be true that someone believed, but what was given to him would eventually be the sound of getting together to clink glasses years later. What the land really lacks is is that seed she said was never there. In the same way, traveling alone without friends is a loneliness at the deepest level.

We truly bless those who have dreams and are willing to do it, and sympathize with those ordinary students who are shackled by reality and cannot move forward, but pray more that you, each individual, value yourself more and just be happy.

As for FreeBSD, I always look at it as a tool, tool attributes are its basic attributes, maybe before it is a toy, is something else, but I value people more. See to do embedded, just waiting for the Raspberry Pi 4, and that's all, Broadcom's processors and wireless devices are very annoying, not open source at all, but also to do this open source devices, resulting in driver problems.
