# 19.5 The Linux community has become a dirty quagmire

The title quote is from Linus Torvalds, the chief maintainer of the Linux kernel and father of Linux. The original quote is "The Linux community is now a dirty quagmire".

This phrase is not just used in kernel development, but in all phases of Linux, including and not limited to the various Linux community organizations in China. This article focuses on the latter. As for the Linux kernel, systemd, Code of Conduct, and all those other controversial issues, it is a puddle of mud.

I have to admit that most of the Linux communities in China, one or the other, are dominated by the so-called tycoon. They look fancy and pretty, and actually make their Linux community into an illusory organization where only the chicories speak, without any real role. Do you see any new people in your group who dare to speak?

I'm not going to explain what a tycoon is, those who know know know.

The Linux community we all want is like this: "We all know that newcomers are indeed very rookie, also like to complain, and with a strong Windows habit, but since we ask here, we should have the responsibility to help them solve the problem, rather than directly throw cold water, simply deny or publish a post that does not help solve the problem. Sharing and putting people first, that's the spirit of Ubuntu."

Have the chicories forgotten these words? I don't deny that some questions are stupid, like how to uninstall software from apt. Because such problems can often be solved by search engines.

But what about the truth?

"Please ask the big guys, how should I configure the HTTPS certificate, I have checked the search engines are incorrect."

"Do you understand HTTP principles?"

-- The above was personally experienced in the official QQ group of Linux.cn, and was also answered by an administrator.

"Has anyone ever used FreeBSD?"

"What do you want to ask, just fart", "Don't pay attention to him, he's rude"

"I'm just asking and no one is using it, why is it a problem with politeness?"

--The above happened in USTC's TG group.

"Tycoon, have you finished writing your paper?"

"I haven't finished it yet, tycoon."

"Tycoon is awesome!"

--The above happened in the USTC QQ group.

"People who can't climb the wall are animals, they are worse than dogs and pigs. They only eat shit."

--The above happened in the Gentoo Chinese community QQ group announcement.

"Don't ask, see if anyone cares about you?"

--The above happened in the RockyLinux Chinese group QQ group.

ipxe isn't a priority at the moment.
We need many more mirrors around the world in more countries for that to be useful.
Considering most people don't network boot from their personal notebooks/desktops, I call bullshit.
Network booting is typical in data centers and large enterprises.
omg bro you're trying so hard to put your malware inside artix.
You can't audit it. 
You and your images are not part of our infrastructure.
Which means we have no control over it and therefore cannot stand behind it.
As long as you don't share it here, you're are fine. 
It is unofficial and potentially very dangerous.
i see,i think they force me to talk about bedrock.
Again, your response has nothing to do with the conversation... 
your translator is pure shit.
What is the point having those in the repo?, one cannot use them.

-- The above happened in telegram @artixlinux group.


Some people may say that there is no evidence of isolation, but are the above 6 examples enough? And as you can see, it has nothing to do with the time the community was founded and the number of people, the RockyLinux group was founded less than a year ago and the number of people is less than 100.

So I have to ask, who is the real beast? It is obvious that these tycoon are no good. If there is a problem, he is not there, and as soon as he starts bragging about it, he comes out. Hello everyone, I'm good, blowing each other big brother, mutual support giant tycoon.

The only role as an administrator in the group is to fight and brag. This is their only role. They will be these look like they are very powerful ah! You all can't work! I will, you little trash!

So what is the purpose of your group? To make it easier for you big guys to call each other "big guys"? Those really big people will be in a group to brush up their presence? You can shut up if you don't help others, just leave a place for the good guys. Don't waste the good guy's place.

It's the real crap that's soiling the Linux community. It's the UNIX philosophy that is defiled.

All they do is brag and contribute nothing to the community. The author at least translates the gentoo wiki, but what do these giants who call each other giants do? What do these so-called giants do? Beat up newcomers and brag about their "pride"?

These so-called giants have the appearance of years of ugly daughters-in-law, and when they become mothers-in-law they start to squeeze their daughters-in-law like crazy. This is really funny.

According to Shen Teng's skit is "you do not help to the good guys to give a place, you are not how awesome, the earth is missing you can not turn".

He has a little power, but he has to play him to the limit. It was these "animals" who held the upper echelons of the Linux community for so long that led to today's decline. They have divided up almost all the Linux organizations in the country, so that newcomers are like entering a wolf's den.

At the same time, I would like to advise those newcomers who still want to join a certain Linux organization that these chicories generally have a monopoly on the best educational resources and have written a bunch of useless programs that create wheels. In fact, there is no place for anyone else to speak in the group, it is the "animals" who rule the Linux community together with the initiator.

They do not only contribute nothing, but also persecute newcomers and kill people, as is common! They cut the Linux community and the newcomers with their invisible sharp ground.

You want to fight back? No way! You can either be forced to call him a giant and be insulted by him, or you can stand on your own feet and learn on your own. That's the extent of their privilege, that's the extent of their arrogance.

A large number of chicories have taken over the Linux community, the community. The whole Linux open source community has been polluted by them. It's hopeless. They are very knowledgeable, but they do nothing but evil and contribute nothing to the community.

What about the administrators of these so-called self-proclaimed Linux domestic communities? They look down on people who don't have ladders and can't climb walls, and they look down on people who use Ubuntu, forming a whole chain of contempt.

I still don't understand the philosophy of suffering of these giants, who like to create wheels to fool the newcomers, not to install KDE, Gnome and other complete desktop environment, but to get some fvvm window manager. They like to make the newcomers to install KDE, Gnome and other complete desktop environment, but to get fvvm window manager. I don't think so, it's just a philosophy of suffering.

I still don't understand what is the point of bragging about a system that is less stable than Ubuntu. But these so-called chicories love these infamous things.

It seems that they are the ones who hold the keys to heaven and the world, so it's not new that they control the whole Linux group. It's your fault if you don't get down on your knees and call him a giant!

So what do we want to emphasize? Is the emphasis on antagonizing the Linux world? Are these people only present in the Linux community? Quite the opposite. That is, not really. You can compare the Farscape forums with the Black Apple forums abroad.

The fact is that these chicories are everywhere, it's just that the Linux community is in a more serious state.

For the author himself, it is these giant chicories in FreeBSD groups under the name of administrators that make it possible for the author to create a community of his own, a community that he leads.

A person who posts bits and pieces of kernel analysis in some FreeBSD group every day is not there to share his tutorials for the benefit of others, nor is he posting them incompletely: it seems like a college student posting a differential geometry topic in a QQ group of elementary school students. He is not trying to teach you advanced mathematics, but to show his noble status.

Tycoon is everywhere and has penetrated the whole computer world, what should we do and what can we do?
