# 19.6 Linux Defeat - Refuting the Great FreeBSD Defeat

> **I suggest reading the original article first: [The Great FreeBSD Defeat](https://my.oschina.net/oscpyaqxylk/blog/5457229)**

Readers of my previous article "The Linux Community Has Become a Dirty Quagmire" and my previous article "Linux and the Philosophy of Suffering" know that Linux is filled with an unspeakable sense of pride, from the developers to the community and even the users. It was as if they were the true descendants of UNIX, the only truth in the open source world, and that whoever owned Linux, whoever knew Linux, would have the right to speak.

After more than 30 years, things have changed, and Linux has come to this point, which is a dislocation in any sense.

Wang Yin wrote an article on Linux - working exclusively with Linux - and then posted an article on Linux - talking about Linux, Windows and Mac. The misalignment will be corrected later. Linux is no different.

Arch Linux users are constantly touting the beauty of Arch Linux. Nano, Vi, all rely on Glibc, and not updating means you can't use the basics, and you are forced to update, and they don't care if it causes your system to crash - I can't give you a blue screen anyway. I don't know if the authors of these Arch Linux persuasion articles will be as honest about their misplaced position as Wang Yin was years later. I don't know if the authors of these Linux persuasion articles will be able to honestly admit their misalignment years later, just like Wang Yin.

It's hard to paint a tiger with a dragon, like the emperor's new clothes. Starting with imitation, no matter how you look at it, Linux is doomed.

## 01 The GPL is a success, and the GPL is a failure 

 GPL license brings people the most feeling not "free" but "contagious" and "infected", as if GPL is a plague that will bring disaster wherever it spreads. It seems that the GPL is a plague that will bring disaster wherever it spreads. And it seems that there are few people who misunderstand it, that GPL is not "free", but closer to "libre". Nor does it mean that your code will be 100% open-sourced and given back to the GPL. A famous example of this is Boox, an Eink ecosystem company that uses GPL code but does not open source it.

The reason FreeBSD is drawing a line in the sand with the GPL is because the GPL is getting in the way of FreeBSD's development goals - One of the ongoing goals for the FreeBSD base system is a migration to modern, copyfree or at least more permissively licensed components. One of the ongoing goals for the FreeBSD base system is a migration to modern, copyfree or at least more permissively licensed components.

If anyone is saying that BSDL can be abused by large companies, then Anti-996L is the best license, and never the GPL. Because any license can be abused (except Anti-996L). Anti-996L is the best, most excellent license in the world. It guarantees that your code will not be abused by any company - because no company will dare to use it.

Apple has reused a lot of FreeBSD code, and has also funded its development of LLVM, as have Intel and Netflix.

Being "used" is not necessarily a bad thing. After all, only things that have no value are not exploited, and only "hello world" code that has no use is not abused. This is what Zhuangzi called "useless use is a great use".

Although we have seen many developers delete libraries and run away due to project abuse, the matter also works both ways. Open source developers put Christmas eggs in their code, and commercial companies and the people who "use" them pay the price - whether it's getting fired or being questioned about who ate your button.

Thanks to the GPL, one CentOS goes down, millions of XXOS rise up, and as you can see, tutorials will be more complex and less universal from now on. Si Feng, who previously wrote an article attacking CentOS, said "CentOS: always stay away from it" - if you have to choose a Linux distribution for your server (assuming you don't consider other non-Linux systems like (https://feng.si/posts/2019/07/centos-the-last- Linux -distro-you-should-ever-consider/) and many people criticized him at the time for being ridiculous. But now it seems that it is not certain who is ridiculous. Now look at the replies under that article, I wonder if the words are still there, where is the man? I'm going to follow his example and say something like - " Linux: always stay as far away from it as you can".

## 02 "Is Linux really a good thing"

 Linux is really in a good time, in fact Linux is not related to GUN, GNU project has always rejected Linux, they want to have their own operating system or kernel, they call it - GNU Hurd. ......

 Linux distributions are just a bunch of GNU tools + package managers + Linux kernels in a loose operating system (the first two are generally referred to as "Userland"). Everyone maintains their own, just like Ubuntu rarely gives back to the upstream community, which proves that the GPL license is indeed inferior to Anti-996L.

GNU Hurd is misplaced, and Linux is taking over all developers' computers, just like the broken window effect, if those windows aren't fixed, more windows will probably be broken by vandals. More and more developers are going to Linux instead of GNU Hurd, and it can be said that "all the good stuff is going to Linux", but is Linux, which is the best of development, a good thing? The answer seems to be yes, but it is not.

Hardware-wise, Linux's GPL hinders hardware compatibility expansion (how did they solve this problem?) There are still many users who think that Linux is fully open source, and they think - how can I compile it without open source? So what does the "Linux -libre" project (https://www.fsfla.org/ikiwiki/selibre/Linux-libre/) remove? -- Linux , the kernel developed and distributed by Linus Torvalds et al, contains non-Free Software, i.e., software that does Even after allegedly moving all firmware to a separate project as of the end of the year, it is not possible to install additional non-Free Software that it doesn't contain. Even after allegedly moving all firmware to a separate project as of release 4.14, Linux so-called "sources" published by Mr Torvalds still contain non-Free firmware disguised as Linux, the kernel developed and released by Linus Torvalds and others, contains non-free software, i.e. software that does not respect your basic freedoms, and it induces you to install additional non-free software that it does not contain. Even after allegedly moving all firmware to a separate project starting with version 4.14, the so-called "source code" of Linux released by Mr. Linus still contains non-free firmware disguised as source code.

Software-wise, Linux does have a large number of packages, even more than Windows, which has a positive impact to some extent, but a more negative one. There are a lot of developers who do not maintain their projects very well, because their GPL does not serve as any guarantee and the developers are not under any obligation to provide any guarantee for the software. You want to add a screenshot feature to an IM software because similar Windows IM software (e.g. QQ, WeChat) has this feature and it's important. But the developer will tell you, you can use other software to take a screenshot and copy it in; or say we are GPL, you can see the source code, you can change it yourself, you can't change it, that's your own problem, we have nothing to do with it. You can report bugs all you want, but we can simply say "No".

In terms of security, OpenBSD has removed the Linux compatibility layer and its common software "sudo" in order to improve its security. Linus has previously attacked the OpenBSD crowd as a bunch of masturbating monkeys and considered them to be toys. People still don't know about the relationship between SELinux and the FBI all those years ago (SELinux (Security-Enhanced Linux ) was developed by the NSA). Well, yes, it's also a GPL software, "You think there's a problem you can go look at the source code yourself! and point it out to us." But what more people don't know is that Windows open source is meaningless, dozens of terabytes of source code, whether he is open source or not is the same for what it means - you can neither read nor finish it, it is the same as not open source.

## 03 The commercial layout of Linux

 Linux users, or those who use the so-called "community and open source" versions of Linux with commercial distributions, are not fundamentally different from the "mice" they deride as Insider. The so-called commercial layout of Linux is to expose more users to the philosophy of suffering and to a software that is not perfect and unstable at all.

The commercial version of Wine is called Crossover, which is distributed by the famous "Suzhou Sijie Mark Ding", an open source software that emulates Windows programs on UNIX-like operating systems, and is the peak of the suffering philosophy. Crossover, on the other hand, has used open source as a testing template to gain a wealth of experience to improve their own programs. A similar famous operating system is Fedora, the community version of RHEL, the open source version.

These GPL software is always at risk of closed source, but they also said that GPL allows Fork, so there are many copies of Kui - the plum. For example, Mysql vs MariaDB, Rcoky Linux vs CentOS, OpenJDK vs OracleJDK ...... So which one should I use? You don't know, because GPL software prevents you from abusing him. Do commercial companies really want to live and work with open source software? The answer is no, they just don't have a better choice, see how Apple looks at GCC after using LLVM. more and more commercial companies are recognizing this reality.

 The business layout of Linux is to let users test their software for free, then make money, "give back" to the community to continue to let users test their software for free, and finally the users will be very grateful for the contribution of these companies to their open source business. What the users get is a software full of suffering philosophy, and nothing else. In their parlance, this is also called "exploitation".

## 04 The "Great Dictator" is not necessarily a good thing

It is well known that the Linux kernel is developed under the sole responsibility of Linus. We still don't know when dictatorship has become a commendable thing. Or maybe they think that if the project goes well and Linus chooses a successor, the Linux kernel will be like the Chinese Emperor Qin Shi Huang wanted it to be - ordained to live forever. They brand everyone who disagrees as "leftists" and label them as such, and no one tells you that those days are over?

 The Linux community is the same as their development style, full of chicories who say one thing and no one else does. If you want to ask what the Linux development model is and what their community is - look at Baidu's postings: there are five or six people who claim to represent their fellow bar members but contribute nothing at all, running around trying to unite and unite to overthrow the existing bar owners; there is one who claims that the bar is his own private property and that the bar owner has to be his own clown for all generations; and there is another who is a regular bar owner. There is also a fixed bar favorite, but never recognizes his own identity, and is still saying that others are clamoring for attention; the rest are onlookers who are just lying around.

 The Linux community is, as Linus says, a dirty quagmire, and anyone who tries to debate these people and try to disprove them will be brought down to the same level of intelligence and watch as he beats you with his vast experience.

 Linux itself has been cursed out by more than a few developers whose Code of Conduct (CoC) is the same with or without it. Similarly what would GNU do without Richard Matthew Stallman? As it is now?

## 05 Linux is not getting any younger

We all know that quoting any famous person doesn't add one iota of validity to your argument.

The aforementioned GNU Hurd was indeed designed to be a very good microkernel operating system. But it was a missed opportunity that led more developers into the Linux quagmire.

 Linux has been packaged by countless people as a great product of the GNU Project, a great product of the GPL, a great product of the Linus dictatorship. No one can criticize it for any reason, except Linus himself. The truth is that it is the emperor's new clothes, and you want to lift the shiny coat of Linux to get a glimpse of what is inside, only to find that Linux is not wearing any clothes at all on the outside.

Before bashing the FreeBSD community, please look at the quagmire that is the Linux community, it's not a case of "50 steps forward, 100 steps back", it's a case of "big brother, no brother". Readers here can move on to a previous article - "The Linux community has become a dirty mud puddle". The Linux community, the philosophy of suffering, is the most unqualified to say that other people's communities are dirty and filthy - they talk about RTFM every day. no one dares to say anything about the Linux community, no one dares to say anything, and they are left to trample, to slander, to destroy other communities.

 The Linux community is not what it was back then - we all know that newcomers are really new and like to complain and have a strong Windows habit, but since we are here to ask, we should have the responsibility to help them solve their problems instead of just throwing cold water, simply dismissing or posting posts that don't help in any way to solve the problem. We should not just throw cold water, simply deny or post posts that do not help. Sharing and putting people first is what Ubuntu is all about.

They'll call those problems "Nikkei" and move you out of their community. Of course you have to admit that some people don't listen: you tell them four times, post various forms of tutorials (both pictures and videos and text), they say they did it from the documentation, you look at them and tell them to post pictures. "That's what you got for doing it? The configuration file did not change a word," he changed the normal operation, and will not say thank you, and then continue to ask some "Nikkei" questions, you then back to him, he will say that you "finger-pointing", will not guide people only If you get back to him, he will say that you are "telling people what to do", that you can't guide them, that you just let them read the documentation, that you are preventing people from teaching them, and that you are posting in the Linux community that there is something wrong with the FreeBSD community. But they tend to get warm and fuzzy, thinking that the other person is right and that they are 100% correct. Then they celebrate each other and call each other brothers.

You tell him that the "lib32" compatibility layer is very important, and that the latter cannot be installed, so you must choose now. He will tell you "I just don't use the garbage 32-bit, I just want to use the pure 64-bit system, it's my own business if I can't press it, it's none of your business", "Since you know all that, why do you still come to ask some questions? . These people have no right to complain about the FreeBSD community, they don't even have the lowest level of quality, they are only worthy of being in the muddy Linux community, it is the Linux community that has created this perverted mentality of their deformed personalities - neither the questioner nor the answerer can see anyone.

There are countless absurdities related to Linux. The Linux community was stirred up by the systemd vs. SysV init debate. systemd tried to take over everything - networking, logging, disk management, boot, clock, power, Cron, locale ...... And then it created a split in the major distributions, albeit a very split one. Not to mention the aforementioned how things like SELinux got into the Linux kernel. Red Hat - the commercial layout of Linux that they are so proud of is taking control of the entire Linux landscape one step at a time. Linux is becoming more and more of a tool, and the toy-like Linux that was once young and fun is long gone.

## 06 The dragon slayer finally becomes the evil dragon

Wer mit Ungeheuern kämpft, mag zusehn, dass er nicht dabei zum Ungeheuer wird. Und wenn du lange in einen Abgrund blickst, blickt der Abgrund auch in dich hinein. If you wrestle too long with the dragon, you will become an evil dragon yourself; when you gaze into the abyss, the abyss gazes at you.

--Friedrich Wilhelm Nietzsche

 Linux defeated a series of operating systems: GNU Hurd, FreeBSD, OpenBSD, and a bunch of other BSDs, beat Windows server, MacOS in the server space, and gave rise to Android in the mobile platform.

 The development of Linux looks like a victory for the GPL, a victory for the Linus dictatorship, a victory for the open source community, and a victory for the commercial layout of Linux.

Is this really the case? Is it the emperor's new clothes or the broken window theory?

The new will replace the old, the metabolism of everything, and Linux will not last forever, and one day there will be a better operating system to replace it. This is the basic law of how things work, it's inevitable, and all these people are doing is extending the life of Linux. Linux, which seems to be thriving, is already dying.

 Linux is a lost cause.

It's just that no one wants to unveil the emperor's new clothes.

The dragon slayer has become the dragon - Linux and the GPL are holding back more and more new technologies. They are forcing people to spend a lot of money and effort to maintain a mountain of code - every mistake, I'm talking about you: GCC, Xorg, and its so-called replacement, Wayland.

## 07 Conclusion

 Linux is on its last legs, and it would be wise to leave the GPL and choose Anti-996L as soon as possible.

Of course, no matter if Linux is the emperor's new clothes or not, and no matter how much of a philosophy of suffering it is, it brings a choice to the world, and the times make the heroes.

 The version number of the Linux kernel has been brushed up to 5.17-rc5, so maybe there will be 6.17-rc5, 7.17-rc5, 8.17-rc5 ......

But Linux is a lost cause, and no one can save it. All we can do is try to use him for as many things as possible and finally use Linux for the rest of his life.
