## 19.7 A Novel - FreeBSD from Getting Started to Running

## Chapter 1: Universities and Bazaars and Cathedrals

Eric S. Raymond wrote a book called Cathedrals and Bazaars that deals with important theoretical and practical applications of the open source movement.

At the moment, this is the book that Hongkai Zhang is reading. At that time, in the library, the book was padded under the leg of a circular table, and it was he who rescued it

Except for the torn cover and twisted spine, it was still barely readable. Before that, Zhang Hongkai was studying international economics and trade, and had never been exposed to computers, let alone knowing what the open source movement was.

Zhang Hongkai learned about the magical internet from middle school, and his grades have fallen so much since then that he even scored only 9 points in middle school math once, but of course, his highest score was only 5 points more than passing. He was able to get into college, according to his own words, it was a miracle. Even in the college entrance exam, he only scored 74 in math. He had to go to an ordinary second-grade school, Qingcheng Teachers College.

Qingcheng Teachers College, located in Qingcheng City, is the confluence of seven rivers and eight roads, founded in the Republic of 20 whole, although a long history, but to a hundred years later, is still just a "college".

There is an upside to the book's dirtiness: when Zhang Hongkai told the librarian about it, the volunteer student reported to the teacher and told him, "Please help throw it away, thank you!"

Instead of putting the book into the bin of recyclables, Zhang Hongkai shook his hand a few times and wiped it with his hand, intending to take it back to his dormitory and read it slowly. After all, school had just started and there was still plenty of time.

After the book was cleaned up, its original appearance was revealed, and the words "Cathedral and Bazaar" were also revealed. Although Zhang Hongkai had learned the title of the book by flipping through the title page. But he did not understand how the cathedral and the marketplace were related to computers. Obviously they are two things, no, three things, that are not related to each other.

The weather in Qingcheng City is still the same as usual. It is said that the July fire is flowing, but the mosquitoes don't seem to be afraid at all, still buzzing around, making it impossible for Zhang Hongkai to sleep.

"No way, mosquito tablets have been used up, the school even air conditioning is not available", Zhang Hongkai can not help. Other people in the dormitory have been dead asleep, he lit up the phone, it was already late at night 3:37.

The book had been cleaned up and placed next to the bed. I don't know if it was the moonlight or the light of the phone, but Zhang Hongkai opened the book again.

......

"This book was written by a foreigner and translated by a domestic person." This is the final conclusion Zhang Hongkai came to after observing the cover for ten seconds.

An open university, a university without walls is the real university. Then Qingcheng Normal could only be a "college" indeed.

Tomorrow is the Mid-Autumn Festival Party and Orientation Party, which is another good opportunity for Zhang Hongkai to read books.

The roommate also wondered what he was reading these days, and had dark circles under his eyes.

"The actual fact is that you'll be able to read a lot less, be moderate, and eat a lot more of the Six Flavored Pills.

The company's main business is to provide a wide range of products and services.

Is the roommate misunderstood something? And what does he mean? The actual fact is that you will not be able to get a good deal on your own.

The book is not very thick, only less than 200 pages.

The reason for the slow reading is that he can't understand it at all and always searches for the meaning of a word when he sees one.

## Chapter 2 Installing UQilin

In a QQ group, Zhang Hongkai asked, "Have you ever used Linux? Soon the QQ avatar flashed up, "Linux? Isn't that only WPS?" The people in the group still told him. "You can only use WPS if you install Linux," I told you, and then added another sentence.

UbuntuKylin is a localization of Ubuntu, a collaboration between the National University of Defense Technology and the Ubuntu Foundation.

"Anyway, the official website says so," said Zhang Hongkai, who was planning to install a Linux, but searched for Linux on Hundred Poisons and came up with Ubuntu, while a search for Ubuntu jumped directly to the UbuntuKylin website at https://www.ubuntukylin.com / .

As for why we want to install Linux, it's simple, one is to see how the system looks like in the book, and the second is to see if Linux can only use WPS.

"Oh, to use the soft disk pass, there is a good man named Wang Tao, and someone to wish Wang Tao a happy new year", the official website of the soft disk pass is https://cn.ultraiso.net/ , which is Zhang Hongkai looked for a long time to find.

The first step, what to buy a USB flash drive, and so on, Zhang Hongkai found that it seems that the hard disk installation is also possible, to download a easybcd, he found a green version and then set the grub parameters, the hard disk is HD0, partition is X.

His computer is a Lenovo G400, configured with i3-3110M, 4GB of RAM, and HD4000+AMD 8750M graphics card.

"Let me see how the G400 into the BIOS, oh", Zhang Hong Kai, understand, the G400 has a small button next to the power button, press down, select the second BIOS Setup on it. "So it's quite easy to say."

Wait, how to enter the win 8 again?

......

It looks like the hard drive installation is not very good, so try Old Mao Tao and Da Cabbage? But it also seems to require a USB drive. I can't help it, Zhang Hongkai urgent use, went to the computer store to buy a Kingston 4G USB flash drive, USB 2.0, charges 50 yuan. The casing is red, can also be turned, the model is DT 101.

He rewatched the first tutorial and it seemed that the floppy drive was the easiest solution. Oh, to first compress a space from the D drive to leave the Ubuntu system. As for the size, Zhang Hongkai thought 20G would be enough, and in fact the D drive is not very large.

"There seems to be a wubi installation?" But he searched and searched, and the wubi installation seemed to have been deprecated.

"I have to say, Wang Tao is really a good guy," Zhang Hongkai exclaimed.

"WPS here I come, no it's Linux."

Went in and selected the DT 101 USB device, then the purple box with a few English options, "install , install, this point in English I still know." So Zhang Hongkai clicked install Ubuntu.

The code scrolled up, about ten seconds to see the screen. It was also purple. By the way, he installed UbuntuKylin 14.04.

The first thing I did was to select the language, "I'm familiar with this one", and I scrolled down for a while before I found the four words "Simplified Chinese".

Then it was time to click "Continue".

Zhang Hongkai saw "3 tick", "Well, continue, there will be a third-party installation of this formation, all ticked on forget".

After waiting for about 5 minutes, the rotating circles did not turn.

After looking at the tutorial, it seems to be time to partition. Then install it to the E drive.

So Zhang Hongkai clicked on the four words "other options", because so much space C disk can not be stuffed.

"Oh, a / partition, and a swap partition. The / is the EXT4 log file system."

"Let me see where the E drive is, and what is NTFS?"

In the end, Zhang Hongkai determined which was the E drive by virtue of the partition size.

"The bootloader is to be installed to the EFI partition." The tutorial reads.

"So am I am not one partition short?" So he picked up the mouse and clicked to set the EFI partition.

Then he pressed the word "Install Now" with the left mouse button.

The computer popped up a warning "Write previous changes to disk and continue?" Zhang Hongkai decisively pressed "Continue".

Then he asked, "Where are you?" Zhang Hongkai clicked on the empire, but there was no response, so he clicked on a random place in Asia.

The tutorial says that the keyboard layout does not need to be changed, just enter.

Then it was to set the password. The user name is called zhanghongkai, the password is z bar, simple, point on the automatic login. Zhang Hongkai thought so in his heart, and did so.

"Welcome to Ubuntu 14.04, the latest version of Ubuntu is fast and rich in new features, easier to use than ever, here are some notable new things ......"

After half an hour.

"Installation complete, OK, reboot now" Zhang Hongkai clicked the four words.

## Chapter 3 Sogou Input Method

The G400 rebooted quickly and automatically entered a desktop called Unity.

"This is too anti-human, why is the 'x' on the left, is it to show that you are different?" Zhang Hongkai felt a little twisted.

"stuck", this time a thump, pop-up box "incomplete language support", Zhang Hongkai clicked "now perform this action", and waited for ten minutes, or every After waiting for ten minutes, every step was completed.

He opened the Software Center and tried to install WPS, but searched for it and found that it was not available. He found the official website of WPS and found that there was only 32-bit WPS, but his system was 64-bit, which meant that Zhang Hongkai needed to enable 32-bit software support.

"Oh, first press ctrl alt then T, enter sudo dpkg --add-architecture i386, then the password z, oh, the password does not show, then enter sudo apt -get update. finally Zhang Hongkai entered 'y '". After waiting for half an hour, the software was installed.

"The original space should also be entered ......"

Then cd to the "download" directory, and finally double-click WPS.deb, and jumped to the software store, and waited a few minutes, prompted the installation is complete.

"Still, I WPS installed, wait, as if WPS there is a font file package, is a hundred poison cloud "At that time the hundred poison cloud is not yet limited to 4KB, downloaded is also a deb package, repeat the above steps to install.

"still, I really installed this time, how will screenshots, it seems not"

"The official Wine QQ is provided by UQI, install it and login to QQ, okay, screenshot"

Still: "Look, I said it, Linux can only install WPS"

"Who said that, there is not a lunar calendar, weather, Youkai Assistant, QQ is also there ah"

"Look, you can also take screenshots!"

"And then what? It doesn't seem to be useful" Zhang Hongkai didn't think there was anything in UbuntuKylin.

Then, it seems that there is an input method missing, there is Sogou input method, but you need to install it yourself. After installation, you need to configure something else. "It seems to be an environment variable," the Sogou is quite interesting, not called "sougou", but "sogou", "shiver dog? "

All right, it's time to eat, said pick up the phone being charged, unplugged the USB cable, the charging head is also unplugged. Ready to go to the dormitory building under the small restaurant to eat lunch. "Let's just eat fried noodles."

"I want a fried noodles, no vinegar, the last time I put vinegar I did not hair to eat, is 8 pieces it, transfer you"

In the afternoon and evening, there were three big classes. They were "Management", "Advanced Mathematics C1" and "Civic Studies". "Monday's class is really a lot of ah.".

After a day, Linux could not be opened, stuck in the login screen, a warning box of "internal error" popped up. A hundred poison said the environment variables have problems, but they did not move anything ah, the system is so unstable. "Wait a minute, could it be because of the word kylin."

Zhang Hongkai's idea is not wrong, but only a small problem.

The problem is that although kylin increases the instability of Ubuntu, Ubuntu itself is very unstable. Because Ubuntu is based on the SID version of Debian, it is a downstream version that is more unstable than the unstable version.

Only later will Richard Zhang realize this.

Now he just thinks he should reinstall the original Ubuntu instead of the modified Ubuntukylin.

"I didn't expect Linux to be more unstable than Windows 8, but I just installed a Sogou input method," Zhang Hongkai said.

The stability of XP is also stronger than this.

## Chapter 4 Internal Error Releases

Time is like water, not taking away a cloud, and it was another Thursday. Every Thursday at Qingcheng College is no class in the afternoon, and coincidentally, Zhang Hongkai also had no class on Thursday morning.

"There's time to install a real Linux system again!" Since Ubuntukylin crashed, Zhang Hongkai had to rely on Windows 8 to get by.

So Zhang Hongkai took out the DT 101 flash drive again, which was only 4GB, but I have to say that it was barely enough in this era when the Windows 8 VL image was only 3.31G.

"But how do I download the original Ubuntu? As soon as I opened the official Ubuntu, it jumped to Ubuntukylin by itself, no way"

Finally, after a hundred drugs, he learned that there is something called a mirror station. It seems that you can download the Ubuntu image from the USTC mirror site, just select Ubuntu 14.04 from the "Get distribution image" on the right side of https://mirrors.ustc.edu.cn/.

The next step is exactly the same as installing the kylin version, there is no difference. So I won't go over it again.

Once installed, Richard Zhang pressed the power button.

After booting up, it was still the same, probably meaning that the language lacked full support.

So Zhang Hongkai didn't believe in evil and started to install ShibuDog, no, Sogou input method.

Ibus changed to fcitx, "it seems that the commonly used input method control panel is only these two". There is also a "scim" is no longer maintained, the author has not cared about him since 2004.

Sogou input method depends on gtk, fcitx, and after some repetition, Sogou input method is installed.

"I think it's time to reboot"

After reboot ......

"Sure enough, kylin is not stable, look! Zhang Hongkai excitedly started talking to himself.

Are you so excited just because you installed an input method?

Yes. Sometimes it's so easy to be happy.

Next it's time to install WPS, wait how to delete this Amazon, why is there Amazon? And what the hell is this bunch of libreoffice? Zhang Hongkai hundred poison to the command is sudo apt-get remove libreoffice* unity-webapps-common --purge .

"Ah! Finally uninstalled these tumors," Zhang Hongkai could not help but let out a long sigh!

"32-bit WPS, start!"

After he installed the QQ provided by UQilin, it seemed that Zhang Hongkai had nothing else to do.

It seems that you can learn programming, and it is said on the hundred drugs that you have to install Java first, and also distinguish what jdk jre jvm, "Don't talk about these things, let me see which is the most complete, oh JDK contains all" so Zhang Hongkai is ready to install jdk.

This time he did not visit java.com, but into the Oracle Oracle website, because java was acquired by this company, before it was SUN.

Some people say that the technology company collapsed because he has no technology, which is obviously nonsense: look at SUN. On the operating system he has Sun system, there are still a small group of people in use; on programming language he has JAVA, not to say the first, but also the second; as for their own operating system architecture also has SPARC, talk about hardware can rival IBM. but not still closed down, but you can say it is because he did not have the technology to cause his closure.

Zhang Hongkai think this jdk configuration is really a bit of trouble, and have to move the environment variables. He does not want to move is this, the last time it is because of the move this can not enter the You Qilin.

export JAVA_HOME=/usr/lib/jdk1.8.0_91

export JRE_HOME=/home/zhanghongkai/jre

export CLASSPATH=/home/zhanghongkai./lib:$ /home/zhanghongkai /lib

export PATH=/home/zhanghongkai /bin:$PATH

Then reload the environment variables. Zhang Hongkai run java -version command to see the results of the installation output the java version "1.8.0_91" ......

Thinking about the internal error of UQilin, scared Richard Zhang rebooted to see if he could boot.

After using it for a while, the familiar "internal error" window popped up again.

"It seems you can't blame UQilin, it's not his fault. This Ubuntu is an internal error distribution", Zhang Hongkai realized.

## Chapter 5: Try CentOS

Facing the mid-autumn party, Zhang Hongkai opened Cathedrals and Bazaars again, even though he had already read it once before. He found UNIX all over it.

"UNIX philosophy is anti-human let you put the X in the window on the left? Makes you 'internally wrong' every day?" It's okay not to read it, but the more you read it, the more angry you get.

Richard Zhang realized that despite how beautiful Linux is described in Cathedrals and Bazaars, you have to admit that although it promotes the open source movement to a certain extent, it is ultimately just an inferior imitation of UNIX. Under the guise of the UNIX philosophy is ultimately incorrect.

He believes that the real UNIX was never like this. But there was no way to find a real UNIX system to install either.

The mid-autumn party was soon over, and it was the same old story, nothing to see.

It was only 19:17 when I got back to my dorm room, and the news broadcasts were still on, not to the weather forecast.

"There's nothing to do again." Zhang Hongkai didn't know what to do anymore. The two Ubuntu partitions had been deleted, and easybcd had been used to delete the Ubuntu grub2 boot. If you don't delete it, you'll be stuck at "#" when you boot.

"Or try something else", "This bird's Linux uses CentOS, so I have to buy this book to learn it systematically. I have to install a CentOS first." Thanks to Zhang Hongkai is a Lenovo G400, otherwise CentOS can not be installed, the kernel was only 3.X. "Only CentOS 6.5? It's a good idea."

This time, the floppy disk is not responding to the burning, a hundred drugs know that you have to use win32diskimager to burn CentOS, but all kinds of tutorials are dd, "these people are S, B?" Zhang Hongkai wondered, Windows where to dd?

It took half an hour to burn it, because CentOS-6.5-x86_64-LiveCD.iso just like that, USB 2.0 and very slow.

The installation interface looks very modern. Gnome desktop and some accessories were selected. Useless ones like printers are not installed.

The partitioning is the same as in previous Ubuntu installations.

After installing and rebooting, Richard Zhang found a problem, a black screen.

The first thing that happened was that the screen lit up ...... with a prompt box to enter the password.

"I go ......"

The first thing you need to do is to get a driver from the BCM43142, so you can go to the BTC website and download the driver, and then go to the BTC bar and find a post with a sheep's head icon.

The BCM43142 is a new product. Zhang Hongkai a messy operation down, found WIFI into Ethernet.

The post asked; "So what, my WIFI turned into Ethernet under CentOS, and then took a picture to explain it"

After a few days ......

Wait a minute, the error will not be reported to deal with it, the original post of the sheep hair he did not finish reading, make install thought to get it right, and now look at the results can not. "The original still have to change a few places".

/home/zhanghongkai/packages/driver/src/wl/sys/wl_cfg80211_hybrid.c:2122: error: too few arguments to function 'cfg80211_ roamed'

After the change, make install. load kernel modprobe cfg80211, modprobe lib80211, insmod wl.ko, modprobe wl.

"Oh! There's wifi, haha!"

Zhang Hongkai seemed happier than if it was New Year's Eve.

"Let me see what the update command is."

"Can I just yum update?" That is much simpler than Ubuntu, what the hell apt-get so long, not to mention that there is a -, broken things are very difficult to fight. Look at how short CentOS is, just three letters yum only.

"I'm not saying that the CentOS package is too old, this Firefox version is only 17.0.10, the official are more than 30, install the latest and can not, dependencies are too new, and CentOS dependencies are very old"

"No wonder it's so stable, it's because of the old version", Zhang Hongkai wondered what the strange reason was, old = stable?

## Chapter 6: Not as good as Scientific Linux

Zhang Hongkai always thought CentOS was not good because the package was too old and not suitable for desktop use at all, and it took a long time to install Sogou input method.

"Zhang Hongkai thought it was the re-customization that made it unstable, but he begged his grandparents on the Internet to get rhel-server-6.5-x86_64-dvd.iso, but he But he wanted the desktop version, but couldn't find it, and later learned that server is actually the most extensive, including the so-called desktop version.

Zhang Hongkai and pulled out the win32diskimager , "Sure enough, even the installation interface is the same."

After the installation, there was a black screen, which required Zhang Hongkai to manually turn up the brightness. Try the yum command, and indeed the same as said online, you need to subscribe to use the source, the subscription price is also a year tens of thousands of dollars. "Impossible, don't think about it."

Zhang Hongkai as soon as he thought of CentOS tried to change the source of CentOS to RHEL above, yum update, found that the upper left corner of the red hat are turned into CentOS Logo. then reboot, the system hangs ......

"No way, not that CentOS is almost 100% compatible with RHEL?"

Zhang Hongkai some despair, there is no way out?

He thought that since you can reset RHEL, then there must be others who can.

After a hundred poisons, he learned that there was a reset version called Scientific Linux, an operating system developed by the Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory in cooperation with the European Organization for Nuclear Research. Zhang Hongkai tried to switch his source to RHEL, and there was no problem after yum update. And it is more stable.

This shows that CentOS is not as compatible with RHEL as Scientific Linux. Then why do so many people use the former instead of the latter?

"It's just a matter of people being in the same boat"

"Why do these people have to use any compiled method to install it without yum? The software source is not without his version and software?" Zhang Hongkai puzzled.

"Because there is an EPEL, which has Nginx ah!" I don't really understand why so many people compile and install Nginx, but it looks like all sorts of compilation errors are giving people headaches.

Linux installation software = compile and install?

There are a bunch of s, B compilation tutorials, a variety of unknown compilation tutorials on CentOS, there are so many need to compile? How to uninstall him after compilation? How to upgrade? And how to maintain it?

Zhang Hongkai finally realized the problem of the hundred drugs, always citing some garbage tutorials from garbage websites.

Zhang Hongkai can't stand it, "and these junk tutorials copy each other around, it's tiresome. Not marked with the source, it seems that some companies require them to write blindly, you can work with the money"

"I wonder you have so many new features need to open? Just have to compile to go?"

Zhang Hongkai has finished learning the entire "Bird's Linux Private: Basic Learning" 3rd edition, so it is not difficult to understand what is compiled. The above idea came to him.

The book is also very long-winded, most of which is not necessary to write, and there is no need to read it all, as a dictionary can be consulted. The third edition is also a bit old, or CentOS 5.X, the kernel is still the same 2.6X, need to be updated.

No wonder Zhang Hongkai doesn't play with his phone in class, but it's still a thick book with a black cover.

There are not many mirror sites for Scientific Linux in China. But the internet speed of this mirror station is still okay.

"It seems that there is still some boredom, QQ can not be installed, WPS is also, only deb package, no rpm package, it seems that deb can be converted to rpm and command line, but conversion over, dependency and can not solve ah"

## Chapter 7 Fedora?

In the process of constantly reinstalling the system, Zhang Hongkai found that he did not like Gnome3 this desktop, but prefer Red Hat's Gnome2 style, even though its essence is also Gnome3, after some research, Zhang Hongkai learned that there is a desktop called Mate, is made specifically to continue the Gnome2 is also GTK2 style.

"This is a custom distribution for me, they say Fedora is gutter oil, I'll try it out today", yes, it was another Thursday, the time for Richard Zhang to install the system.

After searching, Richard found that Fedora had a customized version for different desktops, and it was in spins.fedoraproject. "Just download it."

Outside the window, the sun was still shining. A few wisps of breeze brushed through the laurel, causing ripples in the hearts of pedestrians. It seems that the original shade in people's hearts is also washed away.

"It's true that the installation interface is all exactly the same"

'"This mate desktop is also similar to the default system of red hat, it should also be yum, right?"

Zhang Hongkai tried sudo yum update, and it did respond.

Fedora also has a Chinese source, their own installation is fedora 19. self-proclaimed "Fedora Chinese community (FZUG) to create and maintain this software source, for Fedora Chinese users to provide a richer package." Sogou input method is provided, which is the only reason Zhang Hongkai imported this source ......

"I have to say the input method still has to be Sogou ......"

QQ seems to be a problem again, and the so-called wine is not even half-baked ......

"What should we do about this?" Zhang Hongkai only had to call out WEB QQ, although only text, but also better than no ......

not a few days after fedora 20 was released, the Internet said you can use the command to update, the results are obvious update hung ......

Fedora's release cycle is too short, updated several times a year, which makes it impossible to use ...... because stability is difficult to ensure that third-party software matching is also difficult, such as Sogou input method ......

Zhang Hongkai reinstallation and can not install the input method.

It is said that fedora is gutter oil, but Zhang Hongkai think this is a mouse test version, each time you will add some new features that Red Hat wants to enable in RHEL in the test, the test is good to move to RHEL inside for the enterprise stable version to use.

"Is it impossible to recruit a testing team?"

Zhang Hongkai previously felt that the Red Hat system system software is old, now well new, updated every day. Then the desktop gets stuck from time to time. Some inexplicable errors appear.

Those who say fedora stable and good people, with a fashionable phrase "either stupid or bad". Just one question, how do you update a major version? If you don't update your repositories, you're out of luck! How can you install the software if it's directly clicked for you? Change the offshore source? Oh.

There are many software is also based on fedora development, such as the G400 pre-installed linpus linux system is based on fedora system, difficult to use to die, to prevent crashes themselves also engaged in a so-called restore service, probably to match the Lenovo one-click restore, the results of their own security found after the desktop help icon can not be deleted.

Zhang Hongkai sent an email to the company for help (this is considered software three packages), but also ignored, did not get any useful help. Think about it, how can you expect any stability from a system based on a mouse distribution?

"Who are the idiots who say that Linux is more stable than Windows?" Zhang Hongkai wondered, so many people said that Linux is more stable than Windows, how come he didn't find it? "So the desktop has been fired?" Then you don't use it either.

You do not have any software installed, it can be unstable? You never do your homework, so your homework is poorly written?

## Chapter 8 Build your own website

I have to say that to build a server, or CentOS tutorials are the most, this point even Ubuntu can not compare.

"I'd say CentOS."

"How do I build a website?" Richard Zhang inquired and learned that to build a website, it is common practice to install Apache http server, MySQL database and PHP.

Because nginx to add EPEL to have, Zhang Hongkai lazy to add ......

You also have to use the CMS is the website content management system (Content Management System). I've heard of Dreamweaver before, but I've never used it, and I don't want to use it this time. I've been searching for a CMS called emlo, which only supports php5.X and mysql5.X.

The server is a student machine 1 yuan, cn domain name is also 1 yuan. Zhang Hongkai directly bought a year, spent 13 yuan, and do not need to file anything. The registration of a guomao2013 domain name.

First install putty, then link to SSH on it.

"The first thing you need to do is to get a copy of the file. Zhang Hongkai felt that putty was not good, and found xshell after some searching.

"This thing is quite good!" First install Apache.

The first installation of Apache. name is not yet called apache, called what httpd.

Zhang Hongkai watched a tutorial, "Oh, yum install httpd to work."

"Then start, service httpd start"

Zhang Hongkai looks like he has no problem. The site's DNS records have long been configured, after opening the site found "Apache 2 Test Page powered by CentOS".

"I think it's ready!" Zhang Hongkai thought it was easy to build a website.

Then, Hongkai Zhang typed in

yum install php php-mysql php-gd php-imap php-ldap php-odbc php-pear php-xml php-xmlrpc

nano /var/www/html/info.php

Added

```
<?php

phpinfo();? >
```

Then restarted the httpd service. service httpd restart

After Zhang Hongkai opened guomao2013/ info.php, he saw the page titled PHP Version 5.3.2.

"Finally install the database"

Zhang Hongkai typed yum install mysql mysql-server

Then started the mysql service: service mysqld start

Then it said to set the root password: mysql_secure_installation password set and pressed 5 carriage returns.

"Isn't that pretty simple! Oh, and boot up self-start chkconfig mysqld on, chkconfig httpd on"

Then is downloading the emlo zip package with wget (yum install wget) to download and unzip it to install on CentOS? ""

Then you enter the emlo configuration interface. Configuration is very simple, on the input of mysql database user name and password, port number 3306 is the default, do not need to change the series.

Because it is deeply poisoned by large numbers, Zhang Hongkai felt that CentOS also needs to install an anti-virus software. After checking only ClamAV, he finally found something called SafeCat.

After spending some time installing SafeCat, the story just started ......

"Warning, your server is being flooded ...... your server is being SYN flooded ......"

Zhang Hongkai wondered, just built a day of the site who will eat more than attack themselves? He remembered the phrase "since there is antivirus software, there are more viruses".

"It could be that emlo has a vulnerability, and I installed it, so those people followed the vulnerability and came over."

After not half a month, the site suddenly 502. A hundred viruses said there was a problem with the database.

"What's going on!"

As soon as I logged into the background, I found that the database could not be logged in, and there was no response to the password input.

The error message was that root login was prohibited and mysql login was required, but Zhang Hongkai had never set up this so-called mysql account, only the root user password, and the mysql password could not be reset according to the tutorial. Must mysql login.

"???" Zhang Hongkai had 3 question marks in his head. "CentOS what is this crazy?" The first one is "What's wrong with my mysql? Fortunately, my website only has a hello world"

"CentOS is unbelievable!"

## Chapter 9 elementary OS

In the past few days, a girl in the group said to Richard Zhang, "If you can put macos on the G400, I'll call you brother", so he started to study the black apple problem.

Zhang Hongkai actually wanted to install macOS on the G400, because he heard that the Black Apple experience was very good. So ......

I found a forum called near view forum, which is full of bragging, learn nothing real skills, one proudly not allowed to do, arrogant very. As a result, look at half a day of posts, fart did not learn, what chameleon, what four leaf clover clover mess. "What age is still studying mbr installation system, really outrageous, win7 and not unsupported UEFI"

Yes, he was bored and G400 group of people to study the EFI of win7, he found that the installation of the system is not a difficult thing, the difficult thing is how to activate the system. Finally found a kms software from abroad to activate the system.

MacOS image is also surprisingly large, "what the hell is stuffed inside? A mirror 8GB, equivalent to 3 Windows", but Zhang Hongkai his USB flash drive only 4GB, which can be difficult, so go to buy a DT101 16G version, but also the red case.

Burning images also have to use what TransMacos, you can try for free. But you also have to find the learning version.

He used diskgenius to take a look, said: "What the hell, EFI partition must be greater than 300M, Windows this broken, the default partition is actually only 100MB, he let me from where to get him extra 200M?

I added a QQ group of the near view forum to ask, because it always fails to start, stuck in the scrolling code area, because after a while will appear five national languages, so they call this startup state "card five countries". "Hello everyone, I checked the forum and did not find how to solve this problem, please ask everyone how to do?"

No one paid any attention to Zhang Hongkai.

"Still have to rely on their own, just now they are taking advantage of the group is hot to talk, the result is that he went to the cold field"

There is no way, it seems that for some time he can not eat the black apple, do not think about it.

"By the way, there is no Linux that looks like MacOS, anyway, it's all skinned, it's all the same, use what is not use!"

The first Linux that imitated MacOS was called PearOS (pearOS), but it went out of business and was bought by a French company and commercialized, not free.

But soon Richard found an alternative, called elementaryOS, which had a long name and was also based on Ubuntu, so there was no doubt about compatibility.

Zhang Hongkai started to install it, and it felt similar to the Ubuntu installation interface, but after installing it, he realized that it was not like MacOS, but just "not ugly", compared to those ugly Linux GUIs.

"I had to drag someone over to the problem, does it look anything like MacOS? And the choice of software are strange, not popular goods, are niche, it is obvious that these software niche is not without any reason, just more difficult to use it." Zhang Hongkai was speechless.

Soon Zhang Hongkai found a problem, the mouse is easy to appear several. There will be a mouse cursor will be fixed and not move. Then move away and still stop in the same place.

The company's main business is to provide a wide range of products and services to its customers.

"Okay, there is such a big bug in my download before also did not say, there is something wrong with it!"

Zhang Hongkai then deleted the partition of. Secretly, garbage system. Finally shouted: "Yuck! Waste of time."

## Chapter 10 deepin? yuck!

Linux kernels do not distinguish between countries, Linux distributions are divided into countries. So there are many so-called "domestic operating systems" that must be put in double quotes.

Zhang Hongkai's initial understanding of the domestic operating system is those with MTK processor cottage machine, so much so that now Zhang Hongkai is MTK and the word cottage linked, resolutely refused to buy MTK cell phones. At that time, the operating system was called Skye bubble system, and a snow carp platform.

Both platforms have the problem of SP dark deduction, but usually the simplest solution is to modify the software center number, change it to another fake software will think they deducted, Zhang Hongkai now mention it all feel gritted teeth, a game to go in 4 yuan, after the various operations also need 4 yuan, is to send 2 yuan deduction SMS sent 4.

Later there is a god developed bubble modifier, directly change the price to 0 can be, even the software center number do not have to change.

This is the initial attitude of Zhang Hongkai to the domestic operating system. No joy, no sadness, just hope that someone can return the money deducted to him is.

Later, the cell phones are JAVA platform ...... and there is no domestic system whatsoever.

In the early years of the domestic system claimed to be 100% original, and then a person with a paper on its code review, and found that 95% overlap with FreeBSD. That system was called Kirin.

Then there was the Red Flag operating system (which came first chronologically), but Richard Zhang found that this system couldn't even run on a virtual machine. "I wanted to try it on a virtual machine, but it turned out to be a physical machine!"

Red Flag looks to be LFS (a way to build Linux from 0) do, after installation there is no wifi, there is no Ethernet card driver, is plugged into the network cable can not be used. "Good guys, plug the network cable also can not be ...... that can only be goodbye ......"

Later came out a system called COS system, claiming to unify cell phones and PCs, the publicity is very powerful. But by others called "copy other system". In fact, even copy is not copy, blowing to a few years later also did not see a line of code ...... completely in the satellite.

"Deepin is the new star of China! The best operating system I've ever used!"

Zhang Hongkai saw this video in B station.

"Then try it?"

Zhang Hongkai went to download the image, using the depth of the burning image provided to start burning. The interface is very fancy. "I don't know if it's practical."

When the installation prompted "installation failed"

Zhang Hongkai: "???"

After rebooting, I found that it was actually installed successfully.

Then started to copy the windows font file package to deepin (already compressed on win), a copy, deepin is stuck.

"666, this is your so-called domestic operating system? This is purely inferior to Ubuntu"

After copying, it was stuck there too. It is said that their desktops are written in HTML, and the level of programmers varies, so it is normal for the desktop to get stuck.

"Then let's try an update!"

sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade

After the update, reboot, can not enter ......

After a few days and then look at the deepin official website, said it was caused by their bugs and provided a fix command.

"Don't you even check for yourself before you release to see if your update will cause users to enter the system? You are no software testing team!"

"What else are you pulling with me now that there's a problem with the update? Is it useful for you to say this now? I two mouth hoo to you!"

deepin? Dogs don't even use it.

## Chapter 11 Shampoo

B station again someone began to brag about Linux distributions, this time ArchLinux, claimed to be the most desktop users of Linux distributions, almost a handful of people? Each to a Linux group to a bunch of people in the group business card written ArchXXX, and the same as the cult.

Zhang Hongkai thinks it is better to install the experience to see it, the past is "blowing the gods, use not very good is common knowledge"

"Do not feel how, only feel so powerful look." Zhang Hongkai wanted to give it a try. I found the Beginning tutorial and looked at it, the first step is to partition, or use the command line, it looks like nothing to do, Ubuntu's gparted is not fragrant enough?

So Zhang Hongkai took out the DT 101 4G version and burned a Ubuntu, after entering the partitioned area, as usual, a / partition, swap (swap partition) this time he intends to divide his 8G, it is said that the memory X2, 4G twice the natural is 8GB. Although this partition seems to be little use now, he also does not know what this partition is to make.

"Oh, after the partition is mounted, then is the installation of the basic system, and then configure ZSH, why not bash?" Zhang Hongkai expressed doubt about this.

Nothing difficult, it took 2 hours to install ......

The desktop itself is Gnome3, or forced systemd, "the command is so long, systemctl 1234 ...... which are 9 letters."

Zhang Hongkai took a look at the Gnome Shell version number is quite new. "It's not bad."

Then he used the pacman command to install a bunch of software. The installation process of Arch is not easy, but not too complicated either. But the experience is really not very good.

"Why does this system always get stuck somehow, and I can only force it to shut down by pressing the shutdown button, which is a problem with deepin. Zhang Hongkai thought that Ubuntu's unity desktop was already stuck enough, but he didn't expect it.

This is what you boast is better than Windows Linux, what did not find out where to use it? This is not only a WPS, but also the lack of a bunch of fonts do not know how to an.

Barely used a few days, this broken system can be said to be a daily update, each update a whole lot, do not know what the thing.

More and more and deepin a problem, hanging. Direct kernel panic. "Windows blue screen he can also automatically repair it, you kernel panic can not be repaired? It can be seen that the stability of the desktop system of Linux"

"On this stability also want to replace Windows, update can be more hang, and no remedial programs, this fear is not awake in daydreaming it."

"I figured out what this shit Arch, looks good, not in use." Zhang Hongkai recognized the true nature of the shampoo. "The more software you install, the more unstable he is, and the more you update, the closer you are to a system crash."

No wonder so many people are blowing what ArchLinux, the more users a system has, the closer it is to the average for all. "I really don't understand what there is to brag about."

Zhang Hongkai feels that anyone who brags about this system is more or less tainted with that. Can no longer use stupid and bad to describe them, they have long surpassed the border of the two.

There is also a group of junior high school students blowing the magic of VIM, claiming to pair it with a dozen assists on Arch. Then one look at their fancy list of projects, all repeating the work of their predecessors, commonly known as building the wheel.

If you're really good at it, go write a C compiler.

AcrhLinux?

## Chapter 12 Shut up! Tycoon, make room for the good guys

After looking around, excluding those systems based on Ubuntu, Debian, RHEL, and looking for those custom Linux distributions, Zhang Hongkai finally found Gentoo Linux, which is known as the bitch of a meta-distribution.

Just sighing at the suffering of the masses, I did not know I was one of them. I'm not sure if I'm one of them, but I'm not sure if I'm one of them.

How to install Gentoo? How come this handbook is in English, and it's not right to follow it step by step?

Zhang Hongkai was baffled. It is reasonable to say that after learning the private book, he should not encounter any difficulties when installing the system. How come he can't even install a system now? It's a big mistake.

Zhang Hongkai downloaded the Handbook and read it again and again, but couldn't get it to work, so he finally registered a wiki account and decided to translate Gentoo's wiki by himself. it took Zhang Hongkai a few weeks to translate the systemd chapter and all the handbook chapters.

During the translation period, some people sent him emails asking about the translation, saying that their translated chapters were changed, but Zhang Hongkai emailed him back asking him about the translation progress and he immediately stopped talking. "Your translation progress is 0, and you have the nerve to ask me?"

"Is this group of people in the Linux community so funny and impolite? As funny as the admin of Linux-China who asked himself if he knew HTTP, does he understand himself?"

The only role as an admin in the group is to fight and brag. That's his only role. He knows how to do this himself, and he looks like a bull! You all can't work! I can do it, you little trash!

Then ask what is the purpose of your group? In order to facilitate all of you big brothers call each other "giant brother"? Zhang Hongkai wondered, how come there are so many stupid people? Those really big people will be in a group to brush their own existence? You can shut up if you don't help others, just leave a place for good people. Don't waste the good guy's place.

It's the real trash that dirty the Linux community. Defile the UNIX philosophy.

All they know is to brag and contribute nothing to the community. Zhang Hongkai at least translated the wiki, what did these mutual giants do? What have these mutual giants done? Beat up newcomers, plus brag about their "pride"? The first thing you should do is to make sure that you have a good idea of what you are doing.

Zhang Hongkai's management teacher said: "The king of hell is good to see, the kid is difficult to deal with, some people like to put a little power in their hands to the extreme, to highlight their own presence, these people you go to take care of him you are losing."

These so-called giants are quite like years of ugly daughters-in-law, when they became mothers-in-law began to squeeze their daughters-in-law madly. It is really funny.

According to Shen Teng's skit is "you do not help to give the good guys a place, you are not how bull|B, the earth is missing you can not turn" Zhang Hongkai exclaimed: "you give the good guys a place, I bull|B 'chicory ' people! You can shut up now."

He had a little power, and he had to take him to the limit. It is these "animals" who have long held the upper echelons of the Linux community that have led to its current decline. They have almost divided up the Linux organizations in the country, so that newcomers seem to go in and enter the wolf's den.

At the same time I would like to advise those newcomers who still want to join a certain Linux organization, these chicory are generally monopolizing the best educational resources, writing a bunch of useless programs to build the wheel, the group owner in order to enlist these "animals", granted its management, in fact, there is no place for others to speak in the group, is The "animals" and the initiator co-rule the Linux community.

They do nothing but contribute nothing, but also persecute newcomers, kill people, it is commonplace! They cut the Linux community and the newcomers with their invisible sharp ground.

You want to fight back? No way! You can either be forced to call him a giant and be insulted by him, or you can stand on your own feet and learn on your own. That's the extent of their privilege, that's the extent of their arrogance.

A large number of giant chicories have taken over the Linux community, the community. This entire Linux open source community has been polluted by them. It's hopeless. Learned a lot, but no evil, no contribution to the community.

## Chapter 13 Plumbers and Tycoon

Zhang Hongkai is very angry, because the school plumber and he said the school has a rule, the temperature is less than how many degrees can not turn on the air conditioning, for this reason the power lines of the air conditioning are cut directly into the electric gate.

But he this regulation does not take into account the crowded situation, such as in the auditorium, a total of nearly a thousand people, the temperature will obviously rise, not open the air conditioning is simply the same as the steamer.

"I just do not open! This is the school's rules."

Zhang Hongkai said, "Which rule is it? How do I know if you made it up?"

By the time the big lesson on situation and policy was finished, the air conditioner didn't turn on.

Zhang Hongkai went directly to the logistics to complain.

How great is the power of plumbers? Their power is as great as the power of these so-called chicory!

Linus Torvalds, the creator and maintainer of Linux (kernel only), said in the past: "The Linux community is now a dirty quagmire.

The Linux community is now a dirty quagmire, not only for the developers, but also for the users, the domestic users.

How much power can a small plumber have? He prefers to take his power to the extreme, to show his own bull|powerful place. These so-called self-proclaimed administrators of the Linux domestic community are no different? They look down on people without ladders and those who use Ubuntu, forming a whole chain of contempt (except for deepin, which is really not a high level of user).

Zhang Hongkai added a USTC TG group, and the way he entered the group was weird, by checking the TXT records of the domain. It is obvious that the purpose of doing so is to raise the threshold for entry into the group.

"But has the threshold really been raised?"

Why is there more and more chicory inside? I can't help but think about Richard Zhang. These people are not also from Ubuntu step by step? Have they forgotten the words of the Ubuntu Chinese forum?

-- "We all know that newcomers are indeed very new and like to complain and have a strong Windows habit, but since we ask here, we should have the responsibility to help them solve their problems, instead of just throwing cold water, simply denying or posting posts that don't help in any way. post. Being open to sharing and putting people first is the spirit of Ubuntu."

Have the chicories forgotten these words? I don't deny that some questions are stupid, like how to uninstall apt. Because such problems can often be solved through search engines.

Zhang Hongkai was reminded of the so-called Linux CN administrator's question, "Do you know the HTTP principle?" Obviously this person and the plumber is the same, without me you just can't use the air conditioner today, angry you. I can I just do not tell you, you gas not gas? Hahahahahahahahahahahaha ......

How much power can a plumber have, but what is his job? A group of administrators, if not to help the group members to solve some of the difficulties that rely on his own can not solve, then the only reason for his existence is to kick out people who send small ads? I don't deny that he has this role, but in reality he won't manage the clutter at all either.

Linus says the community is dirty, and in Zhang Hongkai's opinion, it's the work of these animals, not the chicory. They regard the spirit of open source as nothing, proud of their own cattle|B, but the community as a whole contributed nothing but to pollute him again.

## Chapter 14 I'm busy

"I'm going to adapt a game based on the novel you wrote. What do you think?" said a netizen and Zhang Hongkai.

"I think it's great!"

The next day.

"Look, I've adapted the plot, see how it is?"

"Don't bother me, I'm busy, I have to work."

Zhang Hongkai directly deleted this QQ friend who had been there for several months. Let him be busy, busy meeting with President Trump or preparing to receive Ultraman? You are busy for half a day is to give the boss for the New Year to change the car?

There are always one or the other people who say they are very busy, but in fact, they are not doing anything, just using a jam-packed schedule to anesthetize themselves, from the beginning to the end of what they are busy with even he himself does not know.

"This is not a project you said yourself? How come I'm bothering you? You're not slapping me backwards?" Zhang Hongkai did not bother to talk to him, directly deleted the end of the matter.

Let him go busy well.

The real emptiness is the bogging down of the fullness.

Quiet down and think about what you are doing something, is the most important thing. Although empty thinking does not create productivity, but it is a vital node to determine the direction.

How can a person who never thinks look up at the stars? He will only say he is very busy. Are you as busy as the President of the United States? The Pope is busy?

It's just an excuse.

Zhang Hongkai saw it clearly.

Looking at the stars may fall into the trap set by the hunter, but it may also predict next year's olive crop.

It is the illusory busyness that is really a waste of time and consumes life to the point of being a formalism from beginning to end, where you satisfy a sense of formal sufficiency without thinking about what is really life, the true meaning of life.

The word "busy" precisely means that you are not busy just to escape from the bloody reality, a real reality that you will come to if you spend a few minutes thinking about it.

A person will have many dreams and will find excuses to extinguish them on their own. Being busy is one of the best excuses, and it seems to have the most legitimacy. I'm busy working, I don't have time to take care of my parents, I don't have time to spend with my kids; I'm busy, I'm busy running around for a living, I don't have time to learn C; I'm busy, I'm busy until that heel is about to touch that neck.

So what else can people say? After all, everyone has to eat, and if you don't eat, you'll starve to death. This is a well-known and established fact.

But what exactly is the point of your busyness? What do you bring to yourself?

Zhang Hongkai knew from a very young age that all reasoning is farting, all useless bullshit.

Did he not know that he was busy? Yes, he didn't know. Very few people know that they are busy blindly. Zhang Hongkai is involved in the work of the student council is also very busy, he is busy with what in the end? In the end, he didn't know, but he organized some formalistic meetings and had to force others to sign in to make up the headcount.

Is Zhang Hongkai busy? What is the point of this? It's a pure waste of time.

Maybe it's just an excuse, he's not busy at all, maybe he's busy playing LOL or maybe not. Anyway, it's all very busy, essentially no difference.

Today in the lattice room one by one white collar and a hundred years ago there is no essential difference between the female textile workers.

Hope is never rooted in one's heart, but busy, meaningless busy makes her dry up and wither.

## Chapter 15 - Student Council of Qingcheng Normal College

"Maybe it's a chance to change yourself?" He picked up an application form for the student union at the student union booth.

The reason for application column, Zhang Hongkai filled in, "I hope to join to let me go to modify the official website of the school, he does not even have HTTPS."

The application form also requires the signatures of ten people, and he went upstairs to find a signature of ten people he didn't know, which is not a difficult task. It was just a matter of feeling a little awkward.

What's more, he didn't go alone, there was his roommate, his roommate was called Chen Ming. The first thing you need to do is to get a good idea of what you want to do. He was also Zhang Hongkai's class president. But he also wanted to join the school student council, and Zhang Hongkai wondered what his purpose really was.

The interview soon began, and one of the seniors asked what the slogan of the student council was.

Zhang Hongkai looked up and saw that the slogan was written on the wall ......

Zhang Hongkai could only say that he didn't know.

A long-haired senior asked, "May I ask what do you think the relationship between the rank of student council members and ordinary students is?"

The senior added, "Have you followed our student council's WeChat public number?"

"You only have two chances to take leave during the selection process of new students in the student council."

The usual training time is noon or Thursday afternoon. But coincidentally, on this Thursday the counselor suddenly informed the class president of International Trade II, Chen Ming, and him that someone from above was inspecting and wanted them to go and do a big self-study session.

"Go, Zhang Hongkai, to attend the training of the student council!"

"But isn't it impossible to skip class? There are disciplinary members checking people out and taking roll call."

"Go ah, you do not go forget"

......

It wasn't until the end of the period when disciplinary committee member Li Jiajia sent out attendance sheets for everyone to check, and Zhang Hongkai found out that he had a record of one leave of absence Zhang Hongkai realized that in fact Chen Ming had given him a leave of absence.

So very smoothly, Zhang Hongkai received a text message to join the student council. "Congratulations you have successfully joined us through the student council payroll program, please come to the student council at 8pm on October 22nd, please reply with your name when you receive it"

Zhang Hongkai went over and found an oval meeting table in the room. Took a few plastic stools, went in, and found that it was two women and one man, three people, a positive minister and two vice ministers.

Then found that it is actually called the study department. Because Zhang Hongkai has only study in his heart.

They said to respond to the principal's call to get up early every day at 6:30 am to do radio gymnastics, and called by the student council, thus responding to everyone in the school.

According to Zhang Hongkai's understanding, there is no other college except the College of Computer Science and the College of Physical Education that do this now. The School of Computer Science and the School of Physical Education begin to run laps around their buildings at 7:00 a.m. every day ......

"It seems to be a pit"

The resulting school student union holds a radio gymnastics event every morning from Monday to Friday ......

This also has the advantage that the people in Zhang Hongkai's dormitory can eat breakfast. The actual fact is that you can have a good deal of time to go to the cafeteria and not spend time crowding people.

As for the specific work of the Student Council Learning Department is to organize a variety of formalistic activities, as long as they are not related to learning are under their control. For example, a series of lectures, reading activities, mock exams for the fourth and sixth grades, and so on.

In fact, they spend 2 days a week at 6 pm to go to a meeting and take a small book to record what was said. In fact, that is, the specific arrangements for those lectures.

One of the ministers asked what we thought, and Zhang Hongkai said he didn't think there was a safety plan. The school sister asked him, "What kind of safety problems do you think will occur?" "What if the light bulb falls down?"

## Chapter 16 - Like-mindedness is Hard

Zhang Hongkai saw that there was no club about computers in this school, and the only one seemed to be just helping people reinstall their systems without much technical content.

"Do you have any clubs you want to go to?" asked his roommate Sun Bin.

Zhang Hongkai responded, "There's nothing I want to go to. Can we create a club of our own, with me as the president and you as the vice president?"

Then Zhang Hongkai looked at the rules of the club at Qingcheng Normal College and found that it needed a professor to be the instructor. Where to find this teacher? After all, Zhang Hongkai was not a student of the School of Computer Science, nor did he know the teacher concerned. As for that teacher of their major's computer fundamentals class was very busy looking, he sent it to the teacher at noon in is, and the teacher replied to him at 1:30 pm.

"It does look like it is very busy."

But not so simple, want to set up a club but also to go to the school's Federation of Associations to participate in the defense, to discuss the meaning of the creation of their own club cloud; write the constitution of the club, the president must also attend training every year, each time the club activities must have records, is the record of lectures.

The association is nominally affiliated with the Student Union of Qingcheng Normal College, and its president is also the vice president of the Student Union. But they are independent, with their own instructors and set of classes.

"Is it really troublesome to set up an open source society."

And Zhang Hongkai wondered what to do without people involved. Just one person or rough Linux.

In the end, Zhang Hongkai did not want to do it. A good start is half of success, everything is difficult at the beginning, difficult in the middle, and even more difficult at the end.

In the end, Hongkai Zhang chose to join the Innovation and Entrepreneurship Organization founded by his sophomore, Yin Chen.

It is a house-level club organized by the counselor and belongs to the School of Mathematics and Economics. It is the college that the second class of International Trade directly belongs to. The instructor is counselor Yu Cheng.

Chen Yin said to meet once a week, have their own a small office in the College of Education inside. Although a little small, as long as a few twenty-square meters

Said to be the world's largest companies as a benchmark, or marketing model. Each time each group writes a PowerPoint analysis out. The specific company is decided by their own group. Because into the society into the late, Zhang Hongkai no society nameplate, said that the accountant Zhang Xueyi to rush.

The first time Zhang Hongkai analyzed the principle and operation mode of the no-flow software.

The second activity analysis Zhang Hongkai did was the China Mobile SP dark deduction problem.

The third time the whole association was never seen again.

The second time, senior Chen Yin said that next time he would ask counselors and graduated seniors to come out to evaluate Zhang Hongkai and his group and analyze the form of entrepreneurship.

In the end, Zhang Hongkai did not get the nameplate, and he never saw Zhang Xueyi again.

Finally, he heard from his roommate Chen Ming that the counselor Yu Cheng and the senior Chen Yin had started a company together, dealing with some poor quality cosmetics without qualification. Yu Cheng is to take the money of people outside the school into the shares and hold a controlling interest, they do not have to bear any responsibility, but on the contrary can also make money. For example, if the company needs to purchase a sofa, it will take it directly from its own home and sell it to the company.

The actual activities of the club stopped, Chen Ming said Chen Yin said people do not do anything, do not listen to him, not at all united, do not know what to do so the club simply can not maintain.

Zhang Hongkai also did not want to say something, at least he felt that it was still possible to feel up, he also put a lot of effort.

## Chapter 17 only fear open-eyed vajra, not afraid of closed-eyed Buddha

It is often said that one is only afraid of an open-eyed vajra, not afraid of a closed-eyed Buddha. What does this mean? Zhang Hongkai has long been taught at the plumber, and again in the so-called Linux community.

Many people slowly got separated to the point of never seeing ......

After translating Gentoo's documentation, Richard Zhang basically mastered the system, and at the beginning you have to decide whether to use Systemd or OpenRC.

To install Gentoo you need a liveCD Linux environment, using the LiveCD provided by the GentooLinux project is the worst choice, the best choice is to use Ubuntu's LiveCD.

Not only because he has a graphical interface, but also because there are many excellent tools already pre-installed, such as the partitioning software gparted.

Then the partition, also the EFI partition does not need to be moved, divided into a / partition, and then 8GB of swap, because the memory of the G400 is only 8G, gentoo's software needs to be compiled, large software such as QT5, chromium compilation will cause memory overflow, and the easiest solution is to use swap.

Gentoo's kernel needs to be compiled by itself, there are many options or most of them are useless, the only thing that needs to be selected is the driver, including the graphics card driver and systemd must be selected, this check one will be turned on. And intel network card driver. The other thing to note is that if you are using EXT4 or btrfs, the kernel is not compiled into the kernel by default, but in the form of modules to provide loading, which is not allowed, and must be compiled in.

It took Hongkai Zhang some time to convert openrc's base system to systemd. Because at that time there was no systemd stage3 available for download.

The key is to choose the right profile file. After that, you have to recompile the package. A depends on B, B depends on C, and C depends on A. Of course, this is the simplest circular dependency ......

This system is not difficult to install, it just takes some time.

It is intuitively stable and the packages are well tested without affecting the iterations of the packages.

However, the problem with this system is obvious: there is no official source of binary packages. Most of the software needs to be compiled and installed, which is very time-consuming. And if a soft package compilation error occurs, you usually can't fix it yourself.

That is to say, it can not be installed at all. And the system is also divided into stable and beta version is ~. But some packages will not enter the stable branch even after a long installation. Need to hit a lot of tags to be able to install on, for a few packages, will destroy the stability of the whole system.

If the system is not updated for a month, there will be an unresolvable dependency loop. I heard that Douban's server used to run Gentoo Linux, but the truth is unknown to Richard Zhang.

As for Gentoo's so-called Chinese community, Zhang Hongkai had a good experience of their superiority. An inexplicable superiority. A small group of elites?

As if the group is a game arena for them.

If these people really have nothing to do how not to go to translate the Handbook or wiki, if these giant chicory feel translation of documents without technology, then to port the software is also a matter of great merit. Why not!

In fact, they did not do a thing. This is the so-called open-eyed King Kong it. They have been rotten to a certain point, and newcomers are afraid to speak, as long as you oppose him he will "invite" you out. This is how Zhang Hongkai was kicked out.

## Chapter 18: Don't know what open source is but talk about it

"Why don't you use LaTeX to write your novel, why do you use word?"

"What makes you say LibreOffice is not compatible with word, why don't you say ms word is not compatible with libreoffice?"

"Free and Software Foundation's 'Free' means free, don't pay."

"Why don't you use GIMP and go use PS."

All of the above is a series of jokes that Zhang Hongkai has seen. Does he himself say that those things have usability?

Elementary school students said libreoffice is good, so Zhang Hongkai went to install a, not to mention the anti-human interface design, let's say he crashed 3 times in 10 minutes, even before the crash of the editorial record, "this thing is also a human can use?" Zhang Hongkai could not help but sigh. He does not even have a small small two or four characters, only something like 12345678.

Pupils say LaTeX is good, Zhang Hongkai looked at half a day did not find for a text worker what this thing is good for.

Pupils say that gimp is better than ps, but even more so.

Students say Free is free is more of a fallacy, Free is free and not free, that is, the fee open source is allowed. Microsoft's open source model is this, Microsoft is not in fact closed source, he is conditional open source, the condition is to buy a certain number of copies of Windows, and there are legitimate reasons. The fact that someone says Windows is closed source means that this person not only doesn't know Windows, but also doesn't know what open source is.

To say that he is a schoolboy is an insult to schoolchildren, which is just a cerebral palsy. This is the philosophy of suffering short for nothing to do, there to build the wheel.

This kind of person is more disgusting than the chicory, he not only has no technology, but also hanging around there half a bottle of water.

He cites Windows as seemingly useless. Is that in fact the case?

Of course not.

Richard Chang cites the NTFS file system, a file system that Linux has never been able to do in its lifetime. The stability of this file system is far more than the so-called what xfs ext, not to mention btrfs, that is a joke. As for zfs this file system is even more funny, designed to only expand the file partition, can not shrink.

NTFS no matter how you accidental power failure he can boot smoothly, in contrast Ext this kind of thing is no reliability to speak of.

What they ignore most is the compatibility of Windows.

Windows 11 in the 2021s can even run 26-year-old windows95 programs, and even more so, without recompiling the source code.

This is something that no Linux system can do, and they are not even compatible with programs from a few days ago.

Their programs depend on specific C libraries, on specific kernel versions. Even gentoo is not an arbitrary choice. That's a joke.

And people say Linux software doesn't need compatibility. hahahahaha, look at how ridiculous these open source juniors are!

Do not mention Macos, that is Apple's strategic incompatibility, and he phase compatible can be compatible, old software has old behavior, new software has new behavior.

Windows GUI stability is Linux a hundred years can not reach. xorg and his so-called alternatives wayland is two mountains of shit.

Open source software is fundamentally a violation of software engineering, because its first step is not to design for user requirements, they do not care whether the user can see Libreoffice that a series of two dozen no introduction of what the role of the icon, they do not care whether you will not compile the program.

These students do not even have the above points of common sense to come out of the half-bottle wobbling, jingle-banging chaos.


## Chapter 19: Lin Xing'er

Wang Jia (Vice Minister), one of the two female ministers, emphasized in the meeting, "You are on equal level with the ministers of the college student council, because we are members of the school student council, you just add their QQs to be responsible for communicating with the ministers. Be careful to have a better attitude, don't take people seriously just because you are on equal level."

Hearing this, the bottom began to mutter "that the college student council members are not one level lower than us, then how to count, the lower level is already ordinary students."

Wang Jia heard the squinting eyes and did not speak. Wang Wenliang, who is responsible for recording, also stopped writing. This is the end of the meeting.

Dismissed.

Student Council in also internal training period, that is, to be familiar with the common format of official documents, master the format adjustment and other methods.

--A message from "Summermoon", "Kai, do you know how to format official documents, can you help me? I've been working on it for two hours, but I still can't do it. I'll treat you to cassoulet rice."

The message was received by Zhang Hongkai who unfolded his memories, this is a girl, if I remember correctly should be called Lin Xing'er, is a more poetic name. She was a head shorter than Zhang Hongkai, who was one meter eight tall.

The last time I saw her, I left myself with the impression of a girl wearing a rather dull short red plaid skirt. The top was a beige short-sleeved, somewhat yellowish. It looks a bit soft.

Zhang Hongkai just got out of class and for various reasons replied to see: "Okay, wait a moment, I'm coming over, you're at that location"

"I'm at the school's east gate 'still online cafe' first floor, I'll wait for you at the door ah, my phone is out of battery, you hurry up ah, thank you" - Xia Mo has not replied after the avatar turned black . Seems to be a response to her just that sentence, the phone is really out of power ......

It took about seven or eight minutes for Zhang Hongkai to reach the Internet cafe at the east gate from Building 2 (Computer Lab Building) where the Introduction to Computer Course was held.

From a distance, he saw a red figure in the north corner of the east gate of Qingcheng Normal College, a little strange and familiar.

Zhang Hongkai approached, not knowing what to say.

Lin Xing'er apologized by saying that her phone was out of battery and she didn't have a charging cable with her.

"Brother Kai do you know how to install this font? There's something wrong with this internet cafe's word"

Zhang Hongkai looked at it and the font was already installed. Then look at the requirements: "Title: Founder Small Standard Song Simplified Chinese, small two size font bold; Body Text Imitation Song GB2312, four size font; First level title in italics ......"

After adjusting the format, Zhang Hongkai used her QQ to add his friend, and then sent a copy of the document to himself, because he couldn't send the document without adding his friend.

Lin Xing'er also did not say anything. "Next time I'll treat you to cassoulet rice, my phone is out of battery and I'm out of cash."

Zhang Hongkai responded, "No, it's all small things, I also kept a copy for myself no need to adjust the format."

Sun Bin asked, "Where did you just go to run so fast"

Zhang Hongkai said, "I was thirsty and went to buy a bottle of mineral water to drink."

"Oh, no wonder he ran so fast." The game is a game to escape from the killer to drive the motor. Previously Sun Bin and Zhang Hongkai spoke.

Opened his computer - G400, Zhang Hongkai received the file sent to him by Xia Mo Wei - new text file 2.docx.

After opening it and checking it, he found that the format had been changed in strict accordance with the ministers' requirements.

## Chapter 20 Shrug

On the way back to the dormitory, Lin Xing'er was walking in front, and Zhang Hongkai was slightly behind Lin Xing'er.

Suddenly Lin Xing'er, who was holding the black marble cover of Introduction to Computer Science, stopped still and shrugged her shoulders. She turned her head and found that Zhang Hongkai was wondering why she had stopped moving. Lin Xing'er's face was a little red.

Zhang Hongkai was baffled.

"I, suddenly remembered there are still some things, why don't you just go first?" Lin Xing'er said in a small voice.

Zhang Hongkai replied, "Oh oh, okay, see you then"

"This woman is really inexplicable," Zhang Hongkai sighed as he held the green cover of Office 2013 and Windows 7 Fundamentals.

After arriving at the dormitory, he also received an emoji from Lin Xing'er, thank you. "Seems to have received a good man card," Zhang Hongkai said silently.

Sun Bin wore headphones to play dawn killers, also can not hear, "you open your mouth not to speak, what do you say, louder!"

"I said it's time to eat!" Zhang Hongkai shouted. There were only two of them in the dormitory, Chen Ming was busy with official business and did not know where to go, and the rest of the people did not know where to go.

"Oh, there are five minutes left when I finish this one." Sun Bin replied.

Zhang Hongkai threw the book "Office 2013 and windows 7 fundamentals" casually on the table, covering his phone.

Sun Bin took off his headset and picked up his phone and said "go".

So Zhang Hongkai and Sun Bin were ready to go to the canteen to eat.

There are only two canteens in Qingcheng Normal University, one in the east and one in the west. The general reaction in the east area was that it was difficult and expensive to eat. But since they were too lazy to walk, they had to order take-out or hold back and go to the east side.

Zhang Hongkai's male dormitory is in the sixteenth building of the west district, which is only a few hundred meters away from the west canteen. The name of the west cafeteria is called Qingcheng Yuan, there are three floors, the first two floors are ordinary cafeteria, the third floor is not a teacher's cafeteria but a small restaurant, and a small movie theater or something like that.

In short, the general public will only go to the first floor, at most to the second floor, the third floor only when the student association group or class activities will go, some students of Qingcheng Normal University have never been to the third floor in their college career, and do not even know that there is a cafeteria on the third floor.

It is often said that bad money drives out good money, and this is also true in the school cafeteria. The popular store often you can't find him in the second semester, or there is no longer that dish.

Originally, there was a restaurant called Long Jiang Pork Knuckle Rice, the taste of the pork knuckles was average, but the minced pork and eggplant was really great. But unfortunately, when Zhang Hongkai was eating, the store's sign was still there, but no one was there. There was no one at this stall.

It is true that bad money drives out good money, and when the number of businesses that use outside packages becomes greater, those who make their own real materials will be driven out of the market.

There is also the tile pot soup can barely be imported, provided that the addition of a dollar an egg, but also need to peel their own shells. "It's really worthy of the tile pot soup, there's no meat at all, it's worthy of the name." Zhang Hongkai said after fishing with a spoon, only a few pieces of bones were fished out, not half a piece of meat.

"Let's just eat, there is no money to order take-out." Sun Bin also has nothing to say, except for the bitterness of their own no other feelings.

The side dish is potatoes, not tasty, not a bit of flavor. As if eating nest.

He watched as Sun Bin ate and did not move, tucked both hands into his trouser pockets, and after a while reached out.

"What are you doing", Zhang Hongkai asked Sun Bin.

"Adjust the position ah, what else can do." Sun Bin said in amazement.

"Adjust the position? I seem to understand something," Zhang Hongkai thought in his heart, as if he remembered something.

## Chapter 21 - Wretched, Mayfly! Magnificent, floating!

"Suddenly I realized the impermanence of life

The world's rogue

Sighing at the bad luck of time and the misfortune of life

I lament the majesty of the ocean and pity the glitter of the stars."

--Title

Even in the face of the steel and concrete coffin houses in the big cities, where the sky is not visible and the earth is not visible, there are still an endless number of urban elites struggling for it.

Even if 80% of the current cars are automatic, and in the future, except for a few areas, even manual gears will be completely eliminated, countless people will have to squeeze to learn manual gears when learning to drive.

even if the price of the automatic range multimeter is even cheaper than the manual range multimeter, but also to go crazy to buy the manual range multimeter.

Zhang Hongkai felt more and more that the existence of the student union of Qingcheng Normal University was meaningless.

Most of the activities held by the student union are meaningless, except for wasting time, even if Zhang Hongkai is the organizer. Therefore, most of the people were playing with their phones at the bottom, and some of them tried to escape from the venue when their phones ran out of battery.

"Zhang Hongkai, you stand at the exit of this door, ask the person who wants to leave which college he is from before letting him go." Zhang Hongkai listened to the only male vice minister - Liu Jiarong - and guarded the right side of the gate here, as if he were a door god.

When they held the inspirational storytelling session and invited the seniors to tell their stories, a student got hurt in the thigh because of the seat, so Zhang Hongkai thought he should leave his phone number for future contact, after all, it was because of their activities that caused the injury of that student.

"Before Zhang Hongkai could ask him which college he was from, the student preempted him by saying, "What happened to you?

"It's your chair that cut my leg, I have to go to the infirmary now." Two people assisted him to leave the lecture hall No. 2 on the roof of the 3rd floor of the old library.

Wang Jia, who was the vice minister, told Zhang Hongkai, "Don't contact him, what if he asks us to pay for it, who will pay for it?"

It must be said that the consideration of the school sister is meaningful, so where exactly does the problem arise?

Floating and heaven and earth, can be said to be the difference between a drop of water and the Yangtze River, without the accumulation of a drop of water, the Yangtze River can never become the Yangtze River, but with less accumulation of a drop of water, the Yangtze River is still the Yangtze River.

For example, this heaven and earth, floating life only morning and evening, there is no difference between the seasons. For example, human civilization, is it really never ending? Humanity as a race, its extinction is also destined to be a matter of necessity. So what is the point of human existence?

The end of FreeBSD as an operating system is also a doomed thing, bound to be replaced by a new one. It will even one day face the sadness of init 0 because it cannot afford to pay its electricity bill, just like OpenBSD, the world's most secure operating system.

Richard Chang's introduction to FreeBSD was from a place called Experimental Ladder. The tutorial there said that the common Linux was FreeBSD, and at that moment, Richard Chang realized that this experimental ladder was not going to be too high and not too well developed.

This is a small thing, but it represents the fact that its level is not high and the curriculum lacks review.

Zhang Hongkai and the others were only responsible for cleaning up the sanitation of the venue, and there was really nothing they could do as to whether there would be seats that would cut people. Maybe this is the contingency plan that Zhang Hongkai emphasized. No one can deny that the light bulb will fall, because as long as Newtonian mechanics is still at work within its conditions, the light bulb is bound to fall.

Any two masses are attracted to each other by a force in the direction through the line of concatenation. The magnitude of this attraction is proportional to the product of their masses and inversely proportional to the square of their distance, independent of the chemical nature or physical state of the two objects and the mediating substance. -- Newton's Law of Universal Gravitation

## Chapter 22: The blue and clear sky

The sky is azure is because the sky is extremely distant from us. Is the orange outside the window still brilliant?

People actually made their choice long before they shook the dice, so shaking the color was just a formality and did not really determine Zhang Hongkai's choice.
