# 26.1 Installation

## Downloading the image

Using OpenBSD 7.1, AMD 64 architecture as an example, visit

<https://cdn.openbsd.org/pub/OpenBSD/7.1/amd64>

to get the system image. If you are burning a USB stick, download `installXX.img`; for a virtual machine experience, download `installXX.iso`. (Note: As of OpenBSD 7.1, please do not use ventory to boot physical installations.)

## Installation Mode

It is recommended that you use the default system partition for this installation, but for those interested in custom partitions, see "Custom Partitions" below.


### Installation Process

> Welcome to the OpenBSD/amd64 7.1 installation program.
>
> (I)nstall, (U)pgrade or (S)hell?

Select i for installation

> System hostname? (short form, e.g. 'foo') `XiaoMing`

System hostname, you can choose one with fewer letters, in the future it will show a hostname like `XiaoMing.DHCP`.

> Available network interfaces are: em0 rtwn0.
Available network interfaces are: em0 rtwn0. >
> Which one do you wish to configure? (or 'done') \[em0]

This step selects the network connection. To avoid unnecessary troubles, please try to choose a wired network. You can start by typing `? ` to learn more about the network name before selecting it. For example, in this example, `em0` is wired network and `rtwn0` is wireless network.

The subsequent configuration can be confirmed directly by **enter key**.

> Password for root account? (will not echo)

Set the password for root account, enter it and enter to confirm (the password will not be displayed on the screen).

> Password for root account? (again)

Enter the password for the root account again and enter to confirm.

Follow up the configuration with a carriage return.

Start sshd(8) by default? [yes] `no

> Setup a user? (enter a lower-case loginname, or 'no') \[no] `XiaoMing`

Set up a user name.

> Full user name for XiaoMing?

Full user name for XiaoMing, feel free to enter it.

> Password for XiaoMing account? (will not echo)

Set a password for the account (the password will not be displayed on the screen).

> Password for XiaoMing account? (again)

Enter the password for the user name again.

Enter the password for the user name again.

> What timezone are you in? ('?') for list) \[US/Eastern] `Asia/Shanghai`

> Available disks are: sd0, sd1, sd2. Which one is the root disk? (or 'done') \[sd0] `? `?

This step is to select which hard disk to install the system on. Press `? ` to list all recognized hard disks. Be sure to remember all the drive letters: the drive letter where you want to install the system, as well as our USB drive drive letter. Then enter the location where you want to install, e.g. `sd0`.

Again, please make sure you have the target hard disk, otherwise it will be too late!

> Use (W)hole disk MBR, whole disk (G)PT or (E)dit? \[gpt] Here, select `w` for bios motherboard and `g` for UEFI motherboard.

> Use (A)uto layout, (E)dit auto layout, or create (C)custom layout? \[a] Here we directly enter and select the system default partition. (Custom partition settings are attached at the end of the article, for reference only, not recommended for new users to try.)

Available disk are: sd0. Which disk do you wish to initialize? (or 'done') [done] Directly enter.

> Location of sets? (cd disk ftp http or 'done') \[cd] `disk`

For the software address, select `disk` . Here we choose the installation disk as the software address.

> Is the disk partition already mounted? \[yes] `no` .

It is important to note that when the system asks if the U disk is already recognized, you must select no so that we can confirm the location of the U disk again. If you are not sure of the USB drive number, you can enter `? ` check.

```
Select sets by entering a set name, a file name pattern or 'all'. De-select 
sets by prepending a '-' to the set name, name pattern or 'all'. Selected sets are labelled `[X]`

[X] bsd [X] etc71.tgz [X] xbase71.tgz  
[X] xserv71.tgz [X] bsd.rd [X] comp71.tgz 
[X] xetc71.tgz [X] bsd.mp [X] man71.tgz 
[X] xshare71.tgz [X] base71.tgz [X] game71.tgz 
[X] xfont71.tgz 

Set name(s)? (or 'abort' or 'done') [done] -game*
```

Here we type `-game*` to uncheck `-game71.tgz`, everything else is checked.

Note: Please check the `X11` option even if you don't use the desktop, otherwise some software may not run properly.

```
Set name(s)? (or 'abort' or 'done') [done] `-game*`

[X] bsd [X] etc71.tgz [X] xbase71.tgz  
[X] xserv71.tgz [X] bsd.rd [X] comp71.tgz 
[X] xetc71.tgz [X] bsd.mp [X] man71.tgz 
[X] xshare71.tgz [X] base71.tgz [ ] game71.tgz 
[X] xfont71.tgz 

Set name(s)? (or 'abort' or 'done') [done]
```

Enter to confirm.

> Location of sets? (cd disk ftp http or 'done') \[done]

Continue with the carriage return to confirm. After that, the system installation will start. After about 5 minutes, the following prompt will appear.

```
CONGRATULATIONS! Your OpenBSD install has been successfully completed! 
To boot the new system, enter 'reboot' at the command prompt.
When you login to your new system the first time, 
please read your mail using the 'mail' command.
```

Congratulations! The system has been successfully installed and you can enter the system after reboot.

## Appendix: Custom partitions

For those who want to try it, suppose you have 32GB, you can set the partition: `swap 2GB` and `/` for the rest of the capacity.

If you have 128GB of capacity, the recommended partition is: `/ 32GB`, `swap 4GB`, and `/home` for the rest of the capacity.

For larger capacities, you can further refine the partition configuration according to your preference.

For system partitioning, select `C`, i.e. `Custom Settings`.

> `p m`

Enter `p m` to display the hard disk. Other options are listed in the following table.

| Code | Function | 
| :---: | :------: |
| p m | View partition size |
| a | Add partition |
| d | Delete partition |
| z | Delete all partitions |
| q | Confirm Partitions |

Let's assume a 64 GB hard drive is partitioned as follows: / 20 GB, swap 4 GB, and divide the rest of the space into /home.

> \> `a`
>
> partition: \[a]
>
> offset: \[64]
>
> size: \[xxxxxxxxx] `20g`
>
> Rounding size to cylinder (bbbbbb sectors): yyyyyyyyyy
>
> FS type: \[4.2BSD]
>
> mount point: \[none] `/`
>
> Rounding size to bsize (w sectors): zzzzzzzzz
>
> \>

The 20GB / sectors are set here, the `shaded box` is the setting we entered, the rest are defaulted to the Enter key.

> \> `a`
>
> partition: \[b]
>
> offset: \[]
>
> size: \[xxxxxxxxxxx] `4g`
>
> Rounding size to cylinder (w sectors): zzzzzz
>
> FS type: \[swap]
>
> \>

Here the swap partition of 4GB is set, the `shaded box` is the setting we entered, the rest is the default selection by enter key.

> \> `a`
>
> partition: \[d]
>
> offset: \[aaaaaaaaaa]
>
> size: \[ASDFGHJKL]
>
> FS type: \[4.2BSD]
>
> mount point: \[none] `/home`
>
> Rounding size to bsize (w sectors): zzzzzzzzzz
>
> \>

Note that we did not enter a value in the `size` field, but just enter, meaning that all the remaining capacity from the previous step is given to that partition, the `/home` partition.

Once configured, remember to enter `q` to confirm.

> \> `q`

Above, the partition is finished.
