# 26.2 Configuration

## Initial login

### Obtaining drivers

The first time you enter the system, OpenBSD will automatically detect the wireless, graphics and sound cards and download the relevant drivers. Wait a few minutes for them to update themselves. If you are waiting too long, you can `Ctrl` + `C` to cancel and run `# fw_update` to retrieve the drivers after you enter the system, as foreign sites are slow to connect.

In the new version 7.1, there is a change that the driver download will encounter a timeout error (GFW). In this case, after running `fw_update`, remember the name of the failed driver and then visit the [official driver site](http://firmware.openbsd.org/firmware/7.1/) directly to get it manually. Unzip the driver package, copy the internal driver files to the `/etc/firmware/` folder, and reboot.

For example, `inteldrm-firmware-xxx.tgz` is the driver for Intel's graphics card. After extracting this driver, you will find the directory of i915 under the driver firmware directory. The following operation can be performed (operation requires permission).

```
cd /etc/firmware/
mkdir i915
cp -r /$PATH/inteldrm-firmware-xxx/firmware/i915/* /etc/firmware/i915/
```

Similarly `amdgpu-firmware-xxx.tgz` is amd's graphics card driver, after extracting the driver, you will find the directory of amdgpu in the driver firmware directory. The following operation can be performed (operation requires permission).

```
cd /etc/firmware/
mkdir amdgpu
cp -r /$PATH/amdgpu-firmware-xxx/firmware/amdgpu/* /etc/firmware/amdgpu/
```
Other drivers are the same as this.

### Desktop support (Please ignore this item for newer versions)

When installing older versions, you may encounter the option to enable X or not. If it was accidentally blocked, we can turn it back on. Open `/etc/sysctl.conf` and add the line `machdep.allowaperture=2`.

### Modify software sources

Open `/etc/installurl` and comment out the default source and change it to `https://mirrors.bfsu.edu.cn/OpenBSD`. Here we have chosen the Northwestern source, users can also choose [Tsinghua mirror source](https://mirrors.tuna.tsinghua.edu.cn/OpenBSD), [Ali mirror source](https://mirrors.aliyun.com/openbsd), and [Nanjing University source](https: //mirror.sjtu.edu.cn/OpenBSD), etc.

## System updates

### Obtaining privileges with a regular account

Log in as root, create a new `/etc/doas.conf`, open `doas.conf`, add a line `permit persist :wheel`

### kernel update

Kernel update: `# syspatch`

Driver update: `# fw_update`

Software update: `# pkg_add -u`

Modify shell: `chsh`
 
Example: `# chsh -s /usr/local/bin/bash $USER`

## Software management

- Find software: `# pkg_info -Q foo`

- Install software: `# pkg_add foo`

- Upgrade software: `# pkg_add -iu foo`


## Mount removable disks

### Create a new mount point

```
$ cd ~
$ mkdir media
$ cd media
# # mkdir usb1 usb2 usb3 usb4
```
### View disk letter

Use the `dmesg` command to check the drive letter of a newly inserted drive, e.g. a USB drive formatted as fat32 may have the drive letter `sd1` on an OpenBSD system.

### Check the partition

If the inserted disk is `sd1`, type `disklabel sd1` to check the partition status. As follows

```
# size offset fstype [fsize bsize cpg]
 c: 60062500 0 unused                    
 i: 60062244 256 MSDOS    
```

### mount

The partition `i` can be mounted using the following command.

`# mount /dev/sd1i /$USER/media/usb1`, with `$USER` replaced by the current user name.

### Other formats

OpenBSD can mount external hard disk formats such as NTFS (requires package `ntfs_3g`), ext2/ext3, and CD disks with the following commands.

```
# mount /dev/sd3i /$USER/media/usb1 # fat32
# mount_ntfs /dev/sd2k /$USER/media/usb2 # NTFS
# mount /dev/sd1l /$USER/media/usb3 # ext2/ext3
# mount /dev/cd0a /$USER/media/usb4 # CD
```

### Unmount the disk

`# umount /$USER/media/usb1`

## Wireless test

For wireless networks in OpenBSD, the configuration file is usually `hostname.if`, where `if` is the wireless driver name + serial number. For example, if the wireless model of a laptop is rtl8188cu, the driver under OpenBSD is rtwn, and the serial number starts from 0. To make the system load wireless automatically, open the `/etc/hostname.rtwn0` file, and add

```
dhcp 
join wireless name wpakey wireless password
```
Save it and you are done.

## Addendum

### Load touchpad

Open `/etc/wsconsctl.conf`, add a line `mouse.tp.tapping=1`.

### Load multithreading

Open `/etc/sysctl.conf`, add a line `hw.smt=1` .

### Related material

- OpenBSD FAQ Recommendations

- Absolute OpenBSD Supplement

*If you think Firefox is slow, try Epiphany (Gnome browser).*
