# 26.4 Package Manager

As with other BSD systems, there are two main ways to install OpenBSD software: using the official pre-compiled binary packages, or by packaging the source code yourself. We recommend the first method of installation.

## Binary packages

We recommend installing the software as a binary package, using the Firefox browser as an example.

- Install the software `pkg_add firefox`

- Delete software `pkg_delete firefox`

- Query software `pkg_info -Q firefox`

- Upgrade software `pkg_add -iu firefox`

In addition, the global commands are: upgrade all software `pkg_add -iu`; delete all package cache `pkg_delete -a`.

## ports 

[check website](https://openports.se/)

OpenBSD ports installation is a bit more complicated, so this is a brief introduction, but those who have the learning curve can check the [manual](https://www.openbsd.org/faq/ports/ports.html) for more detailed information.

OpenBSD is available in multiple versions (release, stable, and current), and ports are not common to all versions.

## pkgsrc

pkgsrc is the package management system for NetBSD, but it claims to support Linux and other BSD systems as well. pkgsrc seems to have more packages than the official OpenBSD packages, but the only concern is whether pkgsrc will work well with OpenBSD. The following is for those interested in trying it out, there is no guarantee that there will be no surprises, and we do not recommend pkgsrc as the primary package management system.

```
$ cd ~/
$ ftp https://cdn.NetBSD.org/pub/pkgsrc/pkgsrc-2022Q1/pkgsrc.tar.gz
$ tar -xzf pkgsrc.tar.gz
$ cd pkgsrc/bootstrap
$ . /bootstrap --unprivileged
```

Then you add the path `~/pkg/bin` to the path environment variable. pkgsrc tree is located in `~/pkgsrc/` and all files related to its work are in `~/pkg/`.

We can then search for software in `~/pkgsrc/` to install the program, and run `bmake install` afterwards. For example, install the IRC client `IRSSI` in `~/pkgsrc/chat/irssi/`.
