# 24.1 System INIT Managed Services

## Basics

FreeBSD uses the traditional BSD INIT to manage system services.

- To start a service: `# service XXX start`
- Stop a service: `# service XXX stop`
- Restarting a service: `# service XXX restart`

For security reasons, the services are disabled by default after installation, so the above commands cannot be executed, and the services need to be turned on first: `# service XXX restart

```
# ee /etc/rc.conf
```

Add a line, `XXX_enable="YES"`, `XXX` for the service name (this is just an example, it can actually be nginx, samba, etc.), this is a fixed format

```
XXX_enable="YES"
```
You can also add it with the command

```
sysrc XXX_enable="YES"
```

The path to the script for the service is: ``#/usr/local/etc/rc.d/`

Of course, you can also call those scripts under `/etc/rc.d/` and `/usr/local/etc/rc.d/` directly.

- `# /usr/local/etc/rc.d/XXX reload`
- `# /usr/local/etc/rc.d/XXX stop`

If a service is not enabled in `rc.conf`, but you want to start it temporarily, then you can do this.

- `# service XXX onestart`
- `# service XXX onestop`

## Advanced

rc.conf holds all system services. The files and paths associated with it are as follows.

1. The default configuration is located at `/etc/defaults/rc.conf`. Try not to modify it. 2.
2. The user-defined configuration is located at `/etc/rc.conf`. For example, if you want the system to automatically start services such as ssh, ipfw, nginx, etc., you should modify this file. **Note that if there is a conflict between a configuration and the default configuration, this file will prevail. ** The base system's service scripts are located in the ***.
3. The service scripts of the base system are located in `/etc/rc.d/`. The service scripts for third-party applications are located at `/usr/local/etc/rc.d/`. When you encounter a problem, find out what the problem is by consulting the configuration file.

### /etc/rc.conf Common configuration files


```
hostname="server.shuang.ca" #set hostname
ifconfig_vtnet0="inet xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx netmask 255.255.255.0" # Set the IP address, where vtnet0 is the name of the NIC, be careful to set it correctly
defaultrouter="xxx.xxx.xxx.1" #gateway address
syslogd_enable="YES" #Enable logging
syslogd_flags="-s -s" #Disable receiving logs from other hosts
fsck_y_enable="YES" #Automatically fsck hard disk on boot
enable_quotas="YES"
check_quotas="YES" #System quotas
clear_tmp_enable="YES" #Automatically clear /tmp on boot
update_motd="NO" #Disable kernel message prompt
icmp_drop_redirect="YES"
icmp_log_redirect="YES" #ICMP redirection
log_in_vain="YES" #Log every attempted connection to a closed port
accounting_enable="YES" #System audit function
```

## periodic.conf

By default, FreeBSD has a number of periodic tasks that are executed with the `periodic` command and are automatically invoked by `cron`. The configuration and paths associated with `periodic` are as follows.

1. The default configuration is located at `/etc/defaults/periodic.conf`.
2. the user-defined configuration is located at `/etc/periodic.conf`. 3. the base system task scripts are located at `/etc/periodic.conf`.
3. the task scripts of the base system are located at `/etc/periodic/`. 4. the task scripts of third-party applications are located at `/etc/periodic/`.
The task scripts for third-party applications are located at `/usr/local/etc/periodic/`.

Take the path database `/var/db/locate.database`, on which the `locate` command depends, as an example.

This database is updated weekly by the script `/etc/periodic/weekly/310.locate`.

You can also run this script directly if you want to update it immediately.

## Other configuration files 

- crontab: `cron` configuration, located in `/etc/crontab`, please refer to `man crontab`.
- syslog.conf: system logging configuration, located in `/etc/syslog.conf`, please refer to `man syslog.conf`.
- loader.conf: System boot configuration, located in `/boot/loader.conf`, please refer to `man loader.conf`.
- sysctl.conf: Kernel parameters configuration, located in `/etc/sysctl.conf`, please refer to `man sysctl.conf`.
